Orange Lounge Radio
Who's your hosts? DarkSakura, Skie, and Loki
Tonight's show is brought to you by the letter M as we interview two of the creators of a multi-genre retro game named Starmazer.
And you too can help see the tales of brick stone wood come to life.
We'll take your questions in chat as well as your comments, feedback, and calls right now on the show where every gamer has a voice.
Orange Lounge Radio
Hello my friends out there on the internet and welcome back to another week of the show where every gamer has a voice.
It is Orange Lounge Radio, episode number 587 for this February 15th, 2015.
My name is Rob Roberts, also known online as Skie on Twitter and so forth.
With you guys here live at the Voice of the Geeks Network, vognetwork.com to talk about video games, gaming culture, and the gamer lifestyle with my co-hosts here in studio.
Say hello to DarkSakura or Jamie Summers.
Yo.
How you doing?
I'm here.
You're here.
I'm full of egg custard.
Egg custard.
And taro milk tea.
We were talking about ice cream before the show which is always a great conversation to have I believe.
Yes, except it's not all that great if you don't actually have the ice cream.
That is true.
So I might have to make a pit stop on the way home.
You know it's no secret that DarkSakura and I are very fond of Pinkberry frozen yogurt.
And they don't pay us to say that, we genuinely do like it.
But if they wanted to pay us, we wouldn't say no.
Or especially in free yogurt.
But I was telling DarkSakura, we were talking about that a little bit, and she had brought up the egg custard and I said,
Did you know there's a creamery place right near her that uses like egg custard?
And DarkSakura was like, really? With little stars in her eyes.
There was a place though that my friend told me about that went out of business that was a frozen custard place.
Interesting.
And I wish I, I've had stuff from there before, I don't remember the name of it.
But frozen custard is actually very good.
Yum yum, delicious.
Making me hungry for dessert.
Also, definitely one of our food connoisseurs here on Orange Lounge Radio.
Say hello to Techmaster Loki.
If by food connoisseur you mean food carnivore, then yes.
Getting, that's three weeks in a row from your new sandwich place.
I'm probably not gonna get it next week.
It just sounded good, I was really hungry.
Yeah.
Because I hadn't had lunch.
It's all good.
So I got the meatball sub at this time, the large meatball sub instead of the small meatball sub.
Food's important, it's a three hour show we do here.
Live at the Voice of the Geeks Network every Sunday night at 6 o'clock Pacific, 9 o'clock Eastern.
It was either that or I was going to get crazy bread from Little Caesars with a ludicrous amount of cheese on it.
But I didn't, I didn't stop there.
I may do that next week, but we'll see, I don't know.
Alright, that's fair, that works.
Alright, we are of course here live with you guys.
And if you are listening live, you can participate with our show by heading over to the chat room over at live.vognetwork.com
Some folks in chat, it looks like a lot of folks talking about the snow in Boston because at the end of Bobby's show,
because of course we are on live at VOG right after Bobby Black Wolf, he was talking about PAX East and Boston and all that.
And some of us that are heading out to PAX East, which by the way, yes, I will be heading out to PAX East.
I'll talk more about that later.
But if you're going to be at the show, I will be there.
Sadly, Loki and Dark Sakura will not be there, but I will.
But now I have a legit concern.
My California never sees snow, but is going to have to go to Boston.
And I'm hoping this wintermageddon that's been going on out there, I'm really hoping it lets up in the next few weeks.
Because I don't know, I don't know.
I remember I went to the very first PAX East actually back in, what was it, 2010?
I think it was the very first PAX East.
And it was snowing a little bit then.
So it's not like, okay, I'm not going to die if it snows, but I just, please, I'd like my flight to get in and out on time.
Thank you. Be very nice. Appreciate it.
Get in and out on time, but when it lands, it'll start doing, you know, fucking, you know, drift racing.
Don't say that. Oh my god, don't say that. Alright.
It's like Wangan Midnight once you hit that.
Well, if they play Eurobeat, it might be okay.
That's the only acceptable way.
We're going to need to make a special landing.
Hit it.
Just JetBlue have like that on one of their satellite radio things, you know.
This is my heartbeat.
That would be awesome. That should really be on all flights.
Take off the landings, you know.
The music, they would go with that.
HavicNights have an 8-hour chat room over at live.vognetwork.com.
It says, prepare for that wind chill, Rob.
I don't even know if I have a jacket sufficient enough.
Keep in mind, I live in Sacramento, land of 110 degrees summer sometimes.
It's 77 degrees today.
It's like a May day today.
I'm like, what's up with that?
Not like an emergency, but an actual day in May.
Like, stop it, nature.
And we need water. Bring the snow over here. We're in a super drought.
Well, we're not really in a super drought.
We did have all that rain a few days ago.
Yeah, but that barely put it down. That was like a notch in the bed.
That's all it was.
We just split the difference.
Alright, anyway, we could talk about the weather and food for three hours,
but we want to talk about games.
And we have an interview, actually, live on tonight's show.
I'm very excited to welcome two of the team members, Dawn and Austin, from StarMazer.
We're going to be talking to them in about 15 minutes.
But if you want to check out their game, they are on Kickstarter in the last few days,
trying to raise the funds to make this game happen.
And I've got to say, it looks really cool.
I wouldn't have invited them on the show if the game didn't kind of meet the standards we're looking at here.
You can check this out online. It's StarMazer.com.
That's S-T-A-R-R M-A-Z-E-R dot com.
And it's kind of like part point and click, part shoot-em-up.
But it's not two games in one. It's like a blended experience.
We're going to talk to Dawn.
Like the Guardian Legend.
Well, why do you think this might have tickled a soft spot for me?
But no, when you think point and click though, point and click more like a LucasArts type game.
Well, yeah, I understand that.
So it's not quite the Guardian Legend.
But definitely, definitely was hitting a soft spot there.
But we'll talk to them about that.
And you can ask them questions as well in our chat room in about 15 minutes.
We'll get to that.
But I want to get to our kickoff topic first and then see if we have enough time for our gaming weeks.
Kickoff topic tonight.
I don't know if you guys saw this going around the internet
and you guys in chat that are participating live with the show.
But there was a rumor over the weekend that started on 4chan of all places.
You know, the minute you hear that something starts there,
there's instantly like this big bag of salt just falls from the sky.
And it's like, here, here's your big grain of salt, right?
So the rumor was that Rayman is going to be a playable DLC character in Super Smash Brothers.
Which is not something we haven't heard before.
We've heard rumors that Ubisoft wanted Rayman in the game.
There's a Rayman trophy.
It wasn't like one of those characters were like, this is outside all, you know, plausibility what could possibly happen, right?
So there's your giant salt that falls from the sky and it's like, alright, well, sure, sure, we've got some pictures,
but that shit can be photoshopped, whatever.
Well then, a video comes out.
And the video actually shows the character select screen.
And, you know, moving through the different characters and landing on Rayman.
So Rayman shows up and the whole thing like it's straight out of the game, right?
And so the video is pretty convincing.
And I think I even said on Twitter, I said, alright, if this is fake, this is one of the best fakes that's ever been done.
Well, guess what? Guess what, y'all? It was fake.
Of course it was fake.
Because if it was real, they would show you going from the title screen to actually playing a match with Rayman
and showing off all the cool stuff instead of like, see, here's an icon on the screen.
See, here's me moving to the... No, it's always fake when it's that shit.
It's never legit if it's, you know...
Did you watch the video of the guy who put it all together?
Yeah, I watched it. It was cool.
I mean, I have such mixed feelings about this and that's why I bring this to the table.
Because certainly there's that element of, you little shit.
Why did you start a fake rumor for the sake of starting a fake rumor?
It's fine. You know, I played a joke and it was over within like a day, so that's cool.
Yeah, but at the same token, though, you're like, wow, he put a lot of work into this and it was really convincing.
You've seen all the ones they've done for Five Nights at Freddy's and even back in the day on, you know, for EGM.
You know, we had all the Street Fighter ones and it's nothing new.
Yeah. Oh, man. I remember we were younger.
The jokes are fun.
We were convinced that Ermac was legit and then...
And then Ermac was legit.
Yeah, Ed Boon was like, let's make it legit.
Yeah, sure. Why not? So there it is.
Looking in our chatroom over at live.vognetwork.com, SSG100Matt says,
Rumor coming from 4chan. That should be the start and end to any rumor.
Look, it's not that I disagree with you, but it's like the monkeys on the typewriter typing Shakespeare.
Yeah, let's put it this way.
If there's ever going to be a rumor about leaked DLC or something like that, they will fucking show you the character, you know, being played in the game.
They're not going to just show you the title screen because that's all they have.
It's not like, well, that should be enough, you know.
They will show you everything because it makes for a better story if you can see, like, here's the moves they have and here's, you know, the final smashes they have and that kind of stuff.
So that's why, like, when I immediately saw something, I'm like, that's not real.
It looks cool, but that's not real.
Um, what do you... I mean, did you believe it at all? Be honest.
No, I didn't.
You didn't?
Yeah, because I didn't know that it came from 4chan, but I saw it on NeoGaf and I was like, well, that's not real.
Did any... Now, I didn't catch this because I only saw it on Twitter and places like that, but did any big websites actually pick it up and run with it?
I think everybody ran it as, like, it's a rumor.
Okay, so everybody ran it as a rumor because I thought maybe part of the whole experiment was...
And to be fair, I didn't watch the entire video.
I wasn't going to spend 20 minutes looking at how this guy faked everybody out, but I kind of, like, I kind of skimmed through it a little bit.
And I was like, maybe part of it is, because I've seen people do this before where they kind of want to test gaming media and see, like, how far will that copy-paste journalism go, you know, type of thing.
And so I thought maybe that was part of it was...
Just give them ideas for DLC, I mean...
Well, I guess maybe that's one final question for me to ask on this whole thing is, do you think, in spite of all this stuff going on, do you think that Rayman could actually end up being DLC?
I don't see why they couldn't. I mean, depends on what the relationship with Ubisoft is with Nintendo currently, because I know at one time, you know, that they're pretty buddy-buddy, especially with the launch of the Wii, or the Wii U.
Well, I should just say even the Wii, because they're pretty supportive of the Wii as well, but, you know, Rayman was going to be, you know, a strong reason why you would need to buy that system, but I don't know, they've kind of backed away from that now, so I don't know.
They could see them doing it, I guess, but I'm sure they've got plenty of ideas for DLC characters.
Yeah, true.
And who knows how many DLC characters they're going to do, and if they're going to do any beyond Mewtwo, I guess.
Alright, going to our chatroom again over at live.vognetwork.com, SSG100Matt says, knowing how the internet tends to overreact to stuff like this, I'm not shocked that this guy who made this isn't getting hacked and sent death threats.
Because it's because it was Rayman, and not a lot of people give a shit about Rayman. If it was like Solid Snake or something like that, then maybe.
I don't know, you don't know Extrafer over on, I mean, you do know Extrafer very well over on Hoard House, but I have to hear him talk about Rayman an awful lot. I think he was legit disappointed at the news.
So we'll see. Anyhow, ADFSAD says 4chan is where the entire SSB Wii U roster originally leaked.
So you know it is that whole thing where sometimes, I mean, I guess the, for lack of a better term, heightened anonymity of that forum does lend itself to being, you know, if you're going to go leak some information, that might be the place to do it.
Not that I would ever endorse, but I'm just saying the heightened anonymity makes it probably alluring for people that want to go spill the beans on things, right?
I guess.
Yeah, a little bit.
So let's see, Tigerclaw in chat over at live.vognetwork.com says Rayman in Smash Brothers would make sense because he seems like the type of character that would fit in.
Yeah, I mean, I do agree with that. He's like a platformer. He's kind of the mascot of another company, like you have Sonic for Sega, you have Mega Man, which maybe isn't the mascot for Capcom, but it's definitely one of their most well-known faces.
Rayman would make a lot of sense in the game, except for that whole difficult relationship right now with Ubisoft and Nintendo, we're not really sure, you know, is there good feelings still there, or is there still a lot of, but we did get the trophy.
So, I mean, that shows that there's something going on there. So, anyhow.
And lastly, SSG100Matt says, according to ScrewAttack, Ubisoft is going to make a statement on this hoax on Tuesday. Why would Ubisoft want to make a statement on the hoax?
Because they own Rayman?
I suppose, yeah, but I mean, why would they make an announcement of an announcement? That's weird to me. Why would they say, we're not going to say anything about it today, but we're going to say something about it Tuesday. Is that because the legal department has President's Day off? Is that...
They may be, the whole company may have that day off or something.
Well, yeah, but I mean...
They're being French.
They're being US, but...
I guess.
They're being French.
Alright, I guess we'll chalk it up to that. Alright, we are going to have some of the guys from Star, Mazer, Austin, and Don here momentarily, but we have a few minutes.
So, let's get into our gaming weeks and the types of video games that we have been playing this week. And before we get into games, I want to address this comment as well.
Akuma JP in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com says, Rob sounds dry, like something's wrong with my voice tonight.
Yeah, I am a little, my voice is a little bit hoarse tonight because even though I retire, and I've talked about this on the show before, I was hosting cult cinema for many, many years, doing, you know, hosting events and so forth.
Even though I retired in October, I actually ended up hosting a show last night because my successor had a emergency type of scenario come up. I don't want to spill all her details, but she couldn't do it.
So they asked me very nicely, could you please, please, please show up and do this? And I'm like, of course, of course. I'll, you know, if I just have to show up, do my thing and not performing or anything, I'll go.
But since I was yelling, getting a crowd hyped, a crowd of 500 people, nonetheless, my voice is a little hoarse today because I really strained it last night, as I sometimes do at these events.
Nay.
Yeah.
There you go.
You're hoarse.
All right. From horses to gaming weeks, Dark Sakura, how was your gaming week?
Flom.
Flom. Oh, this was the game you talked about last week that your teacher had released on iOS?
Yes. It's a shooter. It can get kind of crazy if you, almost bullet hell moments in there, not like that bad, but really hard to dodge. It's got great music, great graphics in it, and a lot of work went into the game and it's super addicting.
So if people have not gotten it yet, it's F-L-O-M-M. Flom. Go get it on iOS. It's out for iPad and iPhone. Do the thing. Get it because I said so. And I'm trying to get Steve to show up.
Yeah. We are going to try to get him on the show in a future week, right? To give us all the pitch on the game and why we should check it out. The concept sounds really interesting. So I'm peaked. I will tell you that.
It's kind of fun shooting number two pencils and junk mail. So on top of that, I've been playing some Dragon Age. I've been mostly writing Dragon Age because I'm actually five chapters ahead in my thick and people have really wanted to read it. So I'm actually going to be wrapping it up soon.
And I guess I have to play Final Fantasy tonight so I can get hearts from my chicken. Chicken hearts! Yum!
Today's the last day of the Valentine's Day event. Or Valentione or whatever they call it. They changed the name a little bit.
The stuff in the thing that does stuff in things. So yeah.
Cool. I'm going to break order here a little bit and I'm going to go next so I can set up some other things while Loki does his gaming week.
But for my gaming week, I also touched Final Fantasy XIV today which is newsworthy because I actually haven't been playing a lot of it for about two weeks.
But I did log in today to do just what Jamie was talking about there to get my Chocobo, the special little Valentine's barding that you can get for the Chocobo. I wanted to do that.
I've been playing an awful lot of Diablo III. Season 2 started on Friday. Which if you don't know what the seasons are, it's only on the PC version.
It's not on the console version because the console version isn't always online and it's already been hacked and item duped and all that.
So in the PC version, which is always online, it allows them to do these more like leaderboard oriented events which the seasons are basically a way you can start a character that will, you know, everybody starts on this day and then the season runs for like three to four months.
And you try to get, you know, you can get achievement points to run that. You can try to see what greater rift you can accomplish and what kind of time.
There's different like conquests which are just basically like really high level. Think like gold and platinum trophy level achievements that you can achieve in the game.
And they're all limited to seasons. And by participating, you get special cosmetic rewards that you only get if you play in that special period.
And then the cool thing is any character you make during the season will roll into your general pool when it's over.
And any experience that you get on your 70 characters, what they call the paragon experience, everything that's the end game experience, that will roll right into the paragon pool on your general characters.
So it's like even though you're taking a side trip to go do this, you know, side character, your efforts will still be permanently felt in the game.
And I think it's a really cool little feature on the PC version of the game and it's a real bummer the console people don't get to experience this.
Although you do still get all the special loot. They work it into the consoles. It's just all in the general pool.
I did promise a new game this week and I did actually ironically with all this discussion we've been having at the top of the show, I picked up a new to me game.
This game's actually been out like for probably like a year and a half but I finally picked this up.
It was about a year actually.
It was about a year. Well it was only $10 on PlayStation thanks to the Flash sale.
So I picked up Rayman Legends which I'd only really played the little Wii U experience that they had before so I hadn't really played the full game.
So I've been playing a little bit of this and you know that Xtifer over on Hoard House, he loves this series and he's friendly, pressured me a lot to play this game on and off.
So I finally got a chance to check it out and it's a pretty solid platformer that gives a lot to come back to.
You know in the levels you're trying to collect these little critters. You want to collect as many like, they're not gold but they're looms I think they're called.
Like lit up bugs or something. You're trying to collect as many of those as you can in a level and depending on how many you collect is what kind of trophy you'll get at the end of the level.
And if you get a good enough trophy you get more unlocks. So it's like there's a lot of stuff that kind of like, a lot of little achievements to go for in the game that will unlock things.
And that's what people really like about platformers I think so that's kind of what gives Rayman a lot of legs.
And the fact that you can go online and you have these daily and weekly challenges that are there as well.
So there's a lot kind of to look for in the game. So I've been having fun just you know, I'm going to try to do what I can do on this level and this level.
But the only problem is then I get a little bit of gaming OCD that takes over and it's like, oh my god I missed one bug in that level.
I've got to go back and play the whole damn thing over again so I can get that one bug.
And so that can cause my progress to be very very slow.
But I've been having fun with the game. It is a lot of fun. It's a great platformer and I see why Extrovert is really into it.
So I'll probably be playing more of that in the coming weeks.
So that was pretty much it for my gaming week. Loki, last but not least, how about you?
Well I played Besiege this week. I actually picked that up because I saw a trailer for it and it looked funny.
It's, if you haven't heard of it, it's a game where you build machines out of parts and then you try to lay waste to medieval environments.
So each level has a goal, like you can drive to this one spot and you get there without hidden mines or destroy this part of a castle or destroy an army or something like that.
But you have to build these machines in order to do that and it's a lot harder than it sounds.
But it's also a lot more hilarious as well.
So there's a ton of YouTube videos out there for it. It's going to be pretty popular.
It's on Steam Early Access right now because, I don't know, there's just a lot of popularity with people making videos about machines and stuff that they've created and everything.
So I played that. I played a little bit of LEGO Marvel Super Heroes because my son wanted to.
And what else? I think it mostly just worked on my game.
So now I have to the point now where I have the first level pretty much done and I'm ready to start more levels.
I got all the framework stuff done. The only thing I'm really missing is a pause menu and some of the options screens and stuff like that.
But for the most part the game is functional so I just have to make levels for it now, which is the best part.
I can't wait to check out your game. I'm so excited.
I'm glad this VoG Jam is still kind of keep on going here because I still have to get around to those videos.
I have to add trees and stuff to the maps I have and that kind of thing. So just a lot of polish and level making.
Alright. Well we are going to go here to our interview tonight. I'm very excited to welcome these guys on the show.
We're going to be talking with Dawn who is the designer, writer, and director.
And then we're also going to talk with Austin who is one of the game developers on this game, Star Maser.
And Star Maser is on Kickstarter right now and it's a point and click adventure, part shoot-em-up, but it's not two games in one.
It's a blend of these two game genres.
So we're going to get these guys on the line because I can sit here and talk about it, but I think these guys will be able to talk to us much better about this game.
So we're going to give them a call right now live here on the air here on Orange Lounge Radio.
We are calling them up on Skype right now, Dawn and Austin with Star Maser.
And I think we have somebody there. Is that Dawn? Oh, Dawn and Austin are both there in the same room. Hi guys.
How's it going? Hello, can you hear me?
Standby.
Hi guys, you're live on Orange Lounge Radio.
What's up you guys? We've got technology from the future.
There you are. Hi.
Hi, how's it going?
Great, you can hear us and see us.
Yes, we can hear you and see you. I apologize we don't have video, but it's only a radio show over here at OLR, so we just have the audio.
Great, that's alright. We did all this awesome setup. We look great right now, I have to tell you.
I just want to use it at the end.
You guys look fantastic.
Well, if you guys want, I'm sorry, one second, there's a bit of like, are we taping this? Is that a thing?
You want me to tape it?
Yeah, go for it, and then it'll justify the video.
Sorry guys, let's go ahead and get started. I apologize for the technical difficulty.
That's okay, you guys are actually live on our show here at Orange Lounge Radio, broadcasting at vognetwork.com right now.
But let's talk a little bit about Star Mazer.
So, I've been trying to explain to people what Star Mazer is all about, but you guys are really the minds behind the game.
Tell us, what is Star Mazer?
Star Mazer is a retro, sexy, pointy, cooky, adventure, snuff game.
That's the fastest way to say it, but what does that mean?
Star Mazer is a storytelling game. It takes place in the far future.
It is a unique blend of mechanics from two seemingly disparate game types into a new and unique genre.
It is a game about replayability, a game about story discovery, and a game about flying cool ships through space.
Why point and click and shoot them up?
What was it about those two genres where you were like, yes, they need to get married and have this game?
One of them is an amazing action mechanic that tends to crap the bed when it comes to story.
Tell me the story of Ikaruga. It does not exist. Shoot the aliens.
The other is a highly story-based game type which tends to ignore action and mechanical fun.
When they do implement it, it tends to be kind of janky and weird and kind of tacked on when I was younger.
I guess the shortest answer is because I played those games the most when I was a kid.
When I thought about making games, those are the two game types I wanted to make.
But instead of making two disparate games with missing parts, I would rather make one game that uses the best parts of other games to make a new game type.
Awesome. If you guys want to ask questions of Don or Austin from Star Maser, you can join us in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com.
Dungeon Buster is in our chat room and says, love the pixel art already, looks great.
I got to say, this is one of the first things I noticed about the game. The pixel art is very detailed.
There's a lot of love for it all over the Kickstarter page with all these little animated sprites and so forth.
What is it about this pixel art style that is necessary for this game?
I want to answer that question. This is Don, by the way. I'm sorry that I'm not letting you ask the talk. I'll let him talk in a moment.
Right now he's still chained to the wall. Just kidding.
There are two distinct reasons. The first is nostalgia. I'm making the game I wanted to make when I was nine.
When I was nine, games looked a certain way and we wanted to extend or expand the idea of what games looked like back then as opposed to stay slavishly to them.
We wanted to get past their limitations. We wanted to create a game that looks like what I thought games looked like.
I recently started playing Four Star Mazer, in fact, one of my favorite games of all time, which is called Gate of Thunder for the Turbo Graphics CD system.
It's a great game. It's one of the best shmups ever made.
Dark Soccer here at OLR is a big fan of that.
Awesome. Well, here's the trick. I remember it looking a lot better than it looked, and it looks incredible.
But in my brain, my nine-year-old version of myself made the animated intro in the beginning with four frames of animation.
I had a whole anime in my head when I remembered that game. I wanted to make that game.
I wanted to make the game that I remember playing when I was much younger.
So that's element number one, nostalgia.
Amigo Softworks, my company, our tagline is nostalgia in HD.
We want to bring to life the fantasies that you played when you were younger.
Not repeat them, but make them feel like they felt when you were younger.
So nostalgia is number one.
Number two, though, is an exploration of art.
So pixel art was an art form of necessity back in the day.
Sprites had to be a certain way.
In fact, the entire look of a whole new form of art was formed because some people had a 16x16 grid to create all kinds of expression with.
I find that fascinating. I like art by limitation.
Our actual game frame is limited and requires all kinds of innovative sprite use.
Some elements of our main character are one pixel wide if you take away the border.
So that's on purpose.
We want to express art that was born of limitation rather than just adhere to limitation.
Mega Man, the blue bomber is blue because of a limitation of the NES.
Inafune said a number of times that he wanted Mega Man to be red, but the NES could produce three shades of blue and only one shade of red.
So red and orange.
So the blue bomber, the famous, I'm looking right now, I have an entire wall with vinyl cutouts of Mega Man sprites.
I know our listeners can't see you guys, but you have a pillow right behind you that looks like it has a giant Mega Man on it.
I've got a Mega Man style Judge Dredd on a pillow.
We're sitting on a quilt that's like a Mega Buster back there.
I'm a giant Mega Man fan.
That's why we have Manami Matsumae as one of our composers for the game.
She's the original sound and composer for the original Mega Man.
But what I'm saying is there were challenges and limitations.
Chip tunes are really popular right now.
That's ridiculous.
It's only ridiculous if you take out the art though, right?
Technically, that's dumb.
That's like banging two pots and pans together is a new genre of music because that's all we have.
But that's not really the truth.
Chip tunes of today, chip artists of today are creating new and unique flavors of music that could not possibly exist without all of the groundwork laid by people who are making music with limitation.
The people who made the original chip tunes weren't making chip tunes.
They were making orchestral pieces with massive limitations.
Right now, chip tunes artists make chip tunes by exploring chip tunes as its own art form.
We're exploring pixels in that same way with our art.
I love chip tunes.
But banging pots and pans together, come on, it's not dubstep.
Come on.
Let's be a little fair here.
No, I'm kidding.
I'm kidding.
No, dubstep is a dial-up modem.
That's true, that's true.
Austin, you've been sitting there so patiently while we've been talking to Don.
Austin, I got a question for you.
So you are the game designer on this game and one thing that caught my eye as I was looking through the Kickstarter was you guys have a system called OMG or open middled gameplay.
What is this OMG about?
So the OMG system is the open middled gameplay of Star Mazer.
The easiest way to explain this is it's like a season from your favorite TV show except in the game you can watch the episodes in a different order.
And by doing that, it will change the outcome because there's this cascading effect of all the things that happened in the beginning throughout the story.
So the way we're actually implementing that is that Star Mazer can start in one of a few possible scenarios.
And it will have a few satisfying endings based off of the events that are taking place in the game.
But as far as everything in the middle, we don't know exactly how that's going to go because we're designing the world and we're implementing the code of the game so that all the characters represent their worldview.
It is very popular for games that have consequences and choice to have this world state where your actions are rated on a scale of good to bad or lawful to chaotic.
And we really don't like that idea because it takes a very complex idea and breaks it down into a definable system.
Games as a simulation do that, but we're making games in the year 2015, not in the year 1985.
So we have a lot of power to be able to make very interesting simulations.
So the way we're building characters is that they see the world from their own worldview.
When you communicate with a character, all these other events could have gone on, but they only care about what they know, what they've seen, and what they've heard of your actions.
So when you're interacting with characters, if you're an amazing pilot because you've been doing great as you fly your Star Wolf, then they're either going to give you respect because maybe they think pilots are cool.
Maybe they'll be afraid or jealous of you because they're a fighter pilot themselves.
Or maybe they don't give a damn how great you are flying because you need to pay them some money and you haven't paid them money.
So what's interesting is that we're recording all these things, and those interactions between characters, we don't specify exactly how they're going to happen in the playthrough that you go into.
That's a whole episode in a different order.
You might encounter a great space pilot early on in the game, but in your next run-through it could happen at the end.
The thing is, your interactions with that space pilot will then create more events that other characters in the world hear about that change how they interact with you.
So the real innovation of Star Mesa, the thing that's going to set it beyond just being an interesting combination of mechanics, is the open middle gameplay where you can play through this game over and over again.
It's always a new experience, and it's always a new way to play through and learn how to be a hero, which is the core message of Star Mesa.
I think it's a really cool sounding idea. Obviously we have companies that make these very episodic games, they're very well known for it like Telltale, but it's like, what if you played a series like The Walking Dead but it was in a different order?
That could change everything completely, so this sounds very ambitious, and I think it's a really cool little twist, especially for something that is kind of rooted in retro in a way. I think it's really cool.
An important note though is that the game isn't released in episodes, the game is released in a season, so you get all the episodes and more episodes than you get in one playthrough all at the same time, whereas like a Telltale game, you get an episode at a time. That's kind of the thing.
Good call out.
Excellent. Well let's talk a little bit about Kickstarter, because you guys are in the last five days of your Kickstarter campaign.
Yes we are.
Kickstarter URLs are very long, they're a little hard for me to give out here on the show, but if you head over to the website StarMaser.com, that's S-T-A-R-R-M-A-Z-E-R.com, there's a link right there to the Kickstarter if you want to check that out.
It looks like you guys are definitely within striking distance of meeting that goal, and I really do hope you guys do meet that goal, but here's your chance with our listening audience and so forth. Why should we consider giving money to this project?
So why don't you get all the highfalutin, high-minded art and theory versions, and I'll give the Selly version.
So yeah, the real exciting thing behind StarMaser is that we have an opportunity, we've got a team that can build a game that...
It's the game that you remember playing as a child, but it's actually that good right now.
That whole aspect of that, like we remember how great those games were back then, you know, flying through the smoke sections, or interacting with those cool narratives.
But if you play those games back today, they're not that good.
And the implementation of the OMG system is something that games have been trying to do for...
In various degrees, games have been trying, or skirting with the idea, but have not fully achieved. The closest example is Shadow of Mordor, which did a great job at it.
And we actually discussed our systems of how we're doing the OMG to the Shadow of Mordor team, and it's very similar to how we're doing things.
But we have a different goal, we're giving a different experience, so we have the opportunity to actually build this system.
And so if you want to see an advancement in game narrative to an actual interactive state, as opposed to going through a linear experience, which is great when you get a lot of games.
That is the thing that we are really setting out to build. That is the new experience that if you fund this game, we will be providing.
That's incredible. We're going to be on the cutting edge. You can be somebody who supported the weather change in video games forever.
If you had the option to back The Walking Dead as a telltale game and then set the change for narrative games a few years ago, and you could be a part of that, that would be really awesome.
Because then you would be part of the people that made telltale-like games, which is a genre now that other companies are doing.
Star Mazer is the next logical evolution in that idea of gameplay. I am very familiar with The Walking Dead series, it's inspired me, I've been thinking about it a lot over the past few years.
And Dawn's ideas that come from a different angle have really merged together to enable us to finally find the next step in that sort of line of engaging narrative games.
That is awesome. I agree with that. Our game looks pretty. To get it on Kickstarter, you get it for five bucks off.
Right? It's going to retail at least twenty bucks. Our lowest tier is fifteen bucks. That's five bucks off. That's twenty-five percent off. That's amazing.
The soundtrack is incredible. I don't know if you've noticed, but not only do we have legendary chip music artist Alex Maurer as our lead composer and also one of the owners of Amigo Softworks, my company,
he's also enlisted the help of over twenty-five other amazing musical artists. The Protomen are on board. Like I mentioned earlier, Manami Matsumae is on board.
Vert. Vert from Shovel Knight. There are so many. Saber Bolt. Saber Bolt. Play of X. Fighting. A-Rival. A-Rival. Arcade Heart.
It takes more than a page to scroll through it. It's incredible. The only way we'll get there is to break our first stretch goal, which is $180,000.
So we need your help. We need your help to get there. That's super important. MegaRan is going to be in the game as an NPC who is going to be fully voiced by MegaRan himself.
And who knows if he can spit some rhymes during the game. That'd be cool. It's incredible.
Some people get a taste of the soundtrack here. We actually have a little clip that we grabbed from the Kickstarter page of what that sounds like.
You can hear a little bit of this chiptune theme here.
You definitely hear some of the retro goodness there in the Star Mazer theme. And if you want to hear more of that, it's over on the Kickstarter page.
But I was actually going to ask. You're sitting there basically spouting off a lot of the artists that make up the playlist here at Vodka Network.
I mean, we love a lot of these guys. How did you get them all together for this?
I'm about to say the most arrogant thing I think I've ever said in my whole life.
Please.
I presented them Star Mazer.
I did it. I did that thing. No, here's the trick. Here's the trick. Okay, so there's this thing.
There's a filmmaker who said, how do you go from being a video store clerk to one of the most lauded filmmakers of all time?
And the filmmaker looks directly at the interview and says, you make reservoir dogs. That was his answer.
And that always sat really dark with me. Because there's probably a lot that went into making reservoir dogs.
You don't just snap your fingers and reservoir dogs come out.
But I've been asked the same question you just asked. I know so many times, and what I come to isn't, you be a badass and make Star Mazer.
That's the funny, jokey answer. The truth is, you have nine people who work really hard on a thing.
You have a provably committed team of artists working together to make a thing, spearheaded by Alex Maher, the music side at least.
Spearheaded by Alex Maher, who is again legendary. People want to work with that guy.
Show them the video, the count video that we put together. Show them the work that we've done so far.
Show them the documents. Show them the character designs. Show them all this neat stuff.
It becomes hard to resist if you've got the time and you've got the interest in this kind of thing.
Something that a lot of people are committing themselves to very deeply and truly.
So the short, jokey answer is, you make Star Mazer. That's how.
But the actual reason is, you work really hard on something that a lot of people can get behind.
If you look at all the others, not a single one of those artists is a random guy from the street or like John Williams.
I don't know that John Williams would want to be part of Star Mazer.
I know Manami Matsumae, who I would consider the John Williams of video games, is interested.
Her first answer was, it looks a lot like UN Squadron. And she's really missed doing games like that.
So that's a really good answer, right?
That's awesome.
We've got all kinds of different answers from all kinds of different folks.
But all of them engaged with Star Mazer at the same level.
We think that our backers, nearly 4,000 of them at this point, engage with the idea.
We hope to spread that idea.
Right now we're having a reach problem, not an engagement problem.
Right now, we have conversions.
Kickstarter gives you these weird stats that don't always hash out because their statistical analysis doesn't include, whatever, math.
But what you come to is you realize that we are getting a conversion rate of around 40%, which is baffling.
10% is normally like pie in the sky high.
So the fact that 40% of the people who see Star Mazer buy Star Mazer immediately are pledged to the system.
And our average pledge is nearly twice as high as normal average pledges, I've found.
Which is pretty great for people in our bracket who offer tiers lower than that.
Our average bid is pretty high, which is pretty incredible.
People love the game when they know about it.
So something like being on your radio show or knowing people who can spread the word is super important for us.
So thank you very much.
I would like to point out, all of those artists are being integrated in an individual way.
We're not just going to say, make a thing and do a thing.
The proto-men have a totally different impact on the game than, say, Arcade High.
Both of those have special things planned for each one of these artists.
So that probably helped getting them on board as well.
Instead of just saying, hey brah, want to do a thing for game brah?
We came to them and said, listen, we have a really cool idea.
The idea with Arcade High is incredible.
The idea with MegaRan's character is incredible.
So yeah, I think having a fully fleshed out idea that a lot of people are already behind because it has some form of merit,
that's probably the easiest way to get them involved.
Well, we are happy to help out by helping to spread the word.
And yeah, I was actually talking with our voiceover guy before the show.
And he had checked out your campaign because he saw that you guys were coming on the show tonight.
And he was like, that looks awesome. I just backed it.
So there you go. We know we got at least one.
Nice. Thank you. Thank you very much.
I want to at least, I don't want to keep you guys too long because I know you guys, of course, are busy trying to get the word out and so forth.
I want to get to at least like one or two questions from our chatters over at live.vognetwork.com.
Let me get a question here from Tigerclaw who asks, with a title like Starmazer, is a maze involved?
Can you ask the question again? It got kind of garbled.
Sure. No problem. Tigerclaw on our chat, I'm asking, with a title like Starmazer, is a maze involved in the game?
No. A maser, so yeah, I can't say no. I'm sure there's going to be maze-like things at some point.
There are navigation things that have to do with your ship and the flying sector.
Navigation has to happen. But a maser, M-A-S-E-R, is any device that emits radioelectric or thermoelectric energy.
So a great example of a maser is a laser. A laser is a subclass of maser.
But when I came up with the story, I was nine, so Zs were way cooler than Ss.
In our game, the Starmazer is this giant ultimate weapon that everybody, including Brick, is after.
Brick is the main character of our story, by the way. Brick M. Stonewood. The M stands for metal.
I would have thought that maybe the maze was part of that, maybe the storytelling a little bit, because it's never going to be the same.
I thought maybe that was a way to look at it.
Totally. Yeah, totally.
I like your answer too.
No, no, that's great. I think we're going to say that from now on. We will not distribute you. That's our idea.
Actually, the open middle gameplay provides a labyrinthine storytelling device, a maze-like method.
We're calling all of our little game units story mazes.
Story mazes?
That's very cool.
Do I get a credit for that?
No, I'm going to call it Minotaur.
One more question here from chat. Triptide asks,
Is there a way to, as an already backer of the project, continue funding the game after the Kickstarter and still up our pledges for a limited period of time?
A lot of games try to do so.
I think we're probably going to do add-ons.
By the way, Triptide is somebody we know.
Hi, Triptide. We don't know him personally, but we actually have, at starmazer.tv, we have a Twitch show every day during the campaign that culminates in a 24-hour Twitchstravaganza.
We have a pizza party and live music and all this kind of stuff.
That's at the last day of our campaign. This Friday through Saturday. Friday at 10 AM PST, all the way through Saturday at 10 AM PST.
But anyway, Triptide has been on watching that show almost every day since we started it.
So he's kind of sneaking in an extra question.
Which is really great.
Add-ons are a thing we're going to try to do. We're still working out the details for them though.
That's one of the things people don't really talk about when they do their campaign.
And I'm sure we're going to do a Kickstarter post-mortem or something.
But there's a lot of information that's not available. Like, hey, how do you handle add-ons?
We don't just click an add-on button. There's a whole big process that you have to go through.
So we're working on it. We'll definitely announce something soon.
Alright, awesome. Now I have one more question that may not be as serious, but it's one of those things that when you notice it, you have to ask.
So this is a question for Austin.
I'm leaving my pants on. My pants are staying on.
It's not that kind of show.
Austin, this is a question for you. I couldn't help but notice, over at starmazer.com, on your profile, there's a little DDR arrow in the picture.
And your Twitter name, 2DX. Do you have a Bamani history like this show does?
Oh, that's easy! That's so good!
I was thinking that Orange Lounge that you guys were referencing that musician, so I was really stoked about that.
So yes, actually, I run a company, I'm co-founder of a company called 2DX.
But it's T-O-O-D-X, as in an excessive amount of deluxe.
It is absolutely inspired by BeatMania 2DX, which is one of my favorite games of all time.
I love the difficulty of it. I play one-handed. I just recently did two mods.
Whatever, I'm not very great at it, but it's because it's super hard.
But yes, it is a triple entendre. I'll let you figure out the other ones, because some of them I don't want to say out on public radio.
But yes, I grew up playing a lot of music games. BeatMania 2DX was the first Japanese game I imported.
It's a huge aspect of mine, so I am so glad that you guys are representing that.
Some of my favorite songs at BeatMania.
We all met playing Dance Dance Revolution at Roseville Golf Land.
Dark Sakura used to be a mod on DDR Freak. This show's been going for 13 years, believe it or not.
Longest running video game podcast. So there it is, born of the DDR community.
That's so cool.
RIP DDR Freak.
What's that?
I've never legitimately played DDR.
What?
Gasp.
Don't worry, I'm going to fix this. I just found this out. I will fix this as soon as possible.
Don't you have a new stretch goal?
You have a 24-hour stream coming up, right?
If you have a 24-hour stream coming up, I think some DDR has to happen in that.
I think that's got to be a thing that happens.
24 hours of butterfly.
I am so down for the best fit on DDR.
Alright, there it is.
Now, if you weren't already considering this, StarMazer, now you know this is part of the Bamadi family here from many, many years ago. I love this.
Anyhow, I want to thank you guys for being on the show this week.
One more quick question for you guys, because we always ask all our guests this.
Besides StarMazer and other things that you are directly involved with, what type of video games are you playing right now?
Don?
Okay, so I'm working a lot, so I'm not able to play a bunch.
For StarMazer specifically, and I'll get to your question directly, but for StarMazer specifically, I'm playing a lot of old-school swaps and adventure games.
I just got Loom for my Turbo Duo, which I'm going to dig into pretty soon here, because I remember loving that game a lot.
So I've been doing that a lot, but that said, I've been playing, I guess it's because it's portable, and if I have time then I can sit down.
I normally am just doing work.
I've been playing my Vita a lot, and I think most recently I just finished Hotline Miami, the original.
I was able to play a little bit of Hotline Miami 2 behind closed doors recently, and I fell in love with it and got to playing Hotline Miami.
So I'm playing that a lot. I'm in my third playthrough of SteamWorld Dig, and I don't know why.
There's something unbelievably addictive about that game. I really love it.
That is an addictive game. It's a lot of fun.
It is a very addictive game.
And then for consoles, I'm stuck in Alien Isolation. I want to spend time playing it at some point.
And I got a buddy who plays Call of Duty, so I've been playing Call of Duty Advanced, whatever newest bro game, a lot too.
But I don't know that I'm super into that outside of the experience of playing it with my friend.
Which, by the way, is a good way to consider if you're not into Call of Duty, that's a great merit for Call of Duty.
It's one of the few of those types of games you can actually split screen, so you can have couch co-op against. It's just pretty fun.
So that's the truth of it. I wish I had a really cool answer, but I'm mostly working.
I understand. Austin, what about you?
So the most recent game I dove into was the demo that was released for Read Only Memories, which is a point-and-click adventure inspired by Snatcher.
So it's been an inspiration for me working on Star Mazer, but I just absolutely love it.
It's a very engrossing storyline, the character's really great, the art is beautiful. So that was the most one I dove into.
Recently I stole a few minutes away and played a game jam game called Apocalypse Gardening, which feels like it was made by Vlambeer.
It's got this amazing balance of shooting and growing. You can find that on the internet somewhere, so I highly recommend that.
And the game I am most excited to play as soon as we get funded, and I have a few minutes, is going to be Life is Strange.
Because people have been talking about it a lot, it sounds a lot like a game I want to build.
He's not lying, he actually made me download it. It's sitting on our Xbox right now.
And then we worked and it got late and I fell asleep, so I'm excited to play that soon. That's my list.
That's awesome.
Life is Strange is in my queue right now.
We just had Matt Kahn on the show about four months ago talking about Read Only Memories when they were running the Kickstarter, so I think he'd appreciate the chat out there.
Oh cool, you know Matt? He's super nice.
Yeah, it's awesome.
And by the way, I will have you know the chatters right now. I know you can't see them in chat, but they are lighting up on this DDR thing.
And Dartesuya did not expect the interview to go down this road.
Jason's saying, I'm so glad Sky asked this question, I noticed the exact same thing.
Fuzzy Ski saying, I will make Don play DDR while dressed as Zangief.
Yeah, I'm going to have a Zangief thing going on.
I can kind of see it.
He could be here on Friday or one of the days during the 24 hour show, so he probably will course me.
That's amazing. You guys have been a lot of fun to have on the show. I've kept you way over time, but thank you for spending time with us here tonight at Orange Lawn Radio.
Again, the Kickstarter is in its last few days, so if you're hearing this show throughout the week or live tonight or via the podcast feed sometime this week,
check it out over at StarMaser.com. That's S-T-A-R-R Maser, M-A-Z-E-R dot com.
And pulling for you guys, really hope to see you guys make it. I would like to play this game myself, so rooting for you guys.
Thank you so much.
We would like to make it for you.
Alright, here's hoping. Well, thank you guys for taking the time out and best of luck.
Thank you. Bye.
Hope to follow up with you on release day. Alright, take care guys.
Let's do it.
Thanks.
That again was Austin and Dawn from StarMaser.
They're cool.
Yeah, they were fun. Isn't that funny? And they're talking in chat, like Jason says,
DDR2DX, Bamani, read only memories. Austin has a lot of overlap with OLR's key tenants. Isn't that funny?
The internet's a big place. The internet's a big place.
And yet so small.
I know, and yet so small. We're all gamers. Darn it. At the end of the day, alright.
Anyhow, I'm very happy to talk to them, and I notice their game's a big deal.
They brought a lot of people into our chat room tonight, so welcome.
Welcome to Orange Lawn Radio. As I mentioned, we all met playing Dance Dance Revolution at an arcade 13 years ago.
We started this show, and after we would play games at the arcade, we used to go to a little diner in the parking lot of Roseville Golf Land
and talk shit about our favorite thing, video games. And here's what we're still doing.
We need to do that again soon.
We're still doing it.
We have an OLR live from Brookfield.
We're still doing it with all you guys here, 13 laters, but now our table is virtual, and all you guys get to come sit at the table,
and we give everybody a voice through email, through our Skype line later in the show. We'll take some live calls.
And you can be on the show just like Don and Austin were, Twitter, forums, everything.
Oh my god, I just had a thought.
What's that?
What if actual OLRCon is just everyone going to Roseville Golf Land and then taking over Brookfield?
You know, you talk about this OLRCon.
How many in your party? 200.
200. All right.
How many in your party? Everyone.
All right, well, best of luck to those guys over at Star Maser, but we do still have plenty of show coming up for you guys.
We want to get through what's going on in the weekend news. Some quick housekeeping for you guys.
There will be no show while PAX East is going on, which is like March 7th. I don't remember the date off the top of my head.
Maybe March 8th, but there will be no show that day. I will be out at PAX East in Boston, and I believe we're going to have a thread on the forums.
I think Hit Stone was going to start something. If you are going to be at PAX East, please visit our forums.
We're hoping to do like a VOG meetup at some point during the convention. We'd love to just meet up with some fans.
I get in an unofficial capacity. I get to talk to you guys and talk some smack about games.
Maybe play some 3DS or go visit the classic gaming display because it's one of my favorite things at PAX.
Check that out. But sadly, because I will be there, there will be no OLR that weekend.
There you go. Follow us on Twitter. Twitter.com slash OLR.
We're also on Facebook. Facebook.com slash OrangeLoungeRadio and on Google Plus.
Google.com slash Plus OrangeLoungeRadio where we'll be asking the FUGL question of the week a little later on inspired by our interview tonight, StarMazer.
Let's get into some news. Quite a bit of it this week. Let's get to it. Loki, starting us off tonight with the news.
For a change.
Yeah, for a change.
So a new challenger arises in Bethesda, actually doing a press conference at E3.
And they put out a notice basically saying, hey, we're going to be here and it's going to be on the 14th it looks like.
So what could they possibly be announcing or showing off? Obviously something really big.
Fallout 4 maybe? Dishonored 2? Something we haven't heard about yet?
Yeah.
Maybe another Star Trek game?
Well, their little Team Fortress-esque game that they showed at last E3 I don't believe has come out.
So there could be that going on too. I mean, that alone would not necessitate an entire press conference.
But at the same time, and hear me out here, I don't think Fallout 4 necessitates its own press conference either.
Yes it does.
Well, I mean, I'm not trying to belittle that game. Obviously that game is a big deal. But one game is not an entire press conference. Does that make sense?
That's true, yeah. They must have a pretty decent lineup too.
Exactly. So looking forward to what they might be bringing out there. The only bummer about that, it's on Sunday night.
Which means that press conference is going to be going on while OLR is happening.
That's right, live news, woo!
But it's making E3 week longer and longer because what E3 proper is what Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
The Microsoft and Sony conferences happen on Monday, as long with what? Is EA and Ubisoft also Monday? I think it is, right?
I don't remember these.
No, EA and Ubisoft are the first day of the show, I think.
Usually, yeah.
But anyway, it's backing up all the way to Sunday now with the Bethesda thing, so E3 week's getting longer and longer.
But hey, I know there's a lot of us out there, myself included, that's like, alright, new Fallout's all fine and good.
Can we get like, just maybe like a frame, just a glimpse, just a peek at the future of Elder Scrolls?
Yes.
I don't mean Elder Scrolls Online.
I'm fine with them even skipping Fallout 4 and doing yet another Elder Scrolls game. I'm totally cool with that.
Some people might disagree with you there.
I don't care. I really don't care.
BlackWolf in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com says, Elder Scrolls Online 2, Elder Harder.
Well, I wouldn't be surprised, actually, with all the focus and attention that, hey, new press conference is going to generate.
You know, because they'll be running it on Twitch, there's going to be a lot of eyes on this, I'm sure.
I wouldn't be surprised at all if they try to pimp up.
I wouldn't necessarily say expansion for Elder Scrolls Online, but this is the point where Elder Scrolls Online will have gone subscription-less.
I don't want to say free to play because you still have to buy the game, but there's no subscription fee, which is a huge move for them, right?
It will be on consoles by this point because it's going to be out in April on Xbox One.
I think it was April.
So come June would be a great time to announce what does the next phase of Elder Scrolls Online look like?
Why, now that this game is out on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, should I go run out and buy it today?
So even though we sit here and joke about the future of Elder Scrolls, I wouldn't doubt it at all if they actually show,
like, here's what Elder Scrolls Online is going to evolve into, leading to maybe the first expansion or something.
God bless them for trying to make that game work. It got a lot of flak.
I think it came out at a bad time. It launched in a very crowded market, and it's hard to justify a subscription-based game.
Blizzard can kind of get away with it because they're Blizzard.
Square Enix gets away with it because the Final Fantasy brand carries a lot of oomph.
Well, and also the problem is that people are coming off of Elder Scrolls Skyrim, and that's a level of game that they're hoping to play with Elder Scrolls Online.
It's like, oh, it's Skyrim, but it's multiplayer. That's kind of what people wanted.
And then they played it, and they're like, well, it's not quite like that. It's more of just like a typical MMO being reskinned into Elder Scrolls.
So, I don't know, I think there's a little bit of disappointment there. Plus, you know, buggy launches.
Well, moving on to some other news from the week.
I was also going to mention, they're not the only company that has booked a venue for E3.
Nintendo has also booked a huge theater for this year's E3 as well, and we'll have to see what plans they have for that as well.
Wait, a huge theater? I thought it was more like...
Well, it's $2.99.
We did Rocky Horror in a 450c theater last night.
It's a small theater for...
But, yeah, okay. Wow. That's a small theater.
Maybe, are they going to do nothing with the theater, but maybe have that dinner smash tournament? Because that'd be pretty cool.
Oh, that's a thought, that maybe they were going to run some type of tournament there.
Maybe, you know, a lot of people are thinking, like, is this a press event?
Splatoon tournament?
Is Nintendo coming back to do a press thing? But, tournament sounds like a really good idea.
Maybe, I don't know. You'd think they got to tap into that fan base, that rabid fan base that Nintendo has somehow.
And if they could have, like, a public venue. But, man, only 299 seats, though. Everybody would be clamoring for that.
Yeah, I'm thinking...
Here's another great example of Nintendo's supply not matching demand. Only 299 seats in this theater.
What? That's like how many people are buying the console, right?
299 US seats.
No, no. There's plenty more people lining up for those amiibo. There's probably 299 people in line, at Fry's, trying to get one of those Majora's Mask 3DS's. It's pretty crazy.
So...
Alright. Dark Tetsuya agrees with you in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com, saying, I was just thinking, a Splatoon tournament, perhaps?
So, anyway...
To register participation for this week's episode of Orange On's Radio at vognetwork.com, use the passphrase, GAS.
Let's talk about some news that kind of struck me by surprise. In Dark Soccer, I don't know if you were looking forward to this game. You're the resident BioWare fangirl.
So, I don't know if you knew a lot about this game, but it was Shadow Realms, which was the four-on-one dungeon crawler that BioWare was working on.
It was cancelled this past week, which kind of takes me by surprise. I don't know if that took you by surprise.
I have no idea what that game is.
A lot of people were saying it was like Evolve, because it was a full four-on-one type of thing, but it's got the BioWare in it, so I would imagine it was more story-driven and a little more RPG-driven.
What is one of the biggest complaints people have about Evolve? There's no single-player mode, right?
So, I would assume, and again, I'm making an assumption, but I would assume that Shadow Realms maybe was addressing some of that in the game that they were making.
But we'll never know, because they made the decision this past week to not move forward on the development of Shadow Realms.
I would like to see one of these four-on-one games be completely unfair. It's like the four people are Brave Warriors versus one baby.
Well, now, there have been no layoffs announced at BioWare Austin, which, fingers crossed, it'll stay that way.
They have said that they are shifting resources over to continued enhancements to Star Wars The Old Republic, speaking of a crowded MMO space.
You know, The Old Republic is free-to-play, and it's worth checking out if you're even remotely interested in Star Wars, but it sounds like some of these resources are going to make that game grow a little bit there.
And more enhancements to Dragon Age Inquisition. I'm not sure what that means, because that's a game that's already launched. Is that more DLC, perhaps?
Wolf Hunt, Wolf Hunt, Wolf Hunt, Wolf Hunt.
Dark Sakura has her wish list over there that she would like Austin to consider working on there.
Also, other Mass Effect, whatever the future is for Mass Effect, and, quote, other new IP. Wasn't there another science fiction game that BioWare-
Negiturian's the game. No, I'm kidding.
Wasn't there another BioWare franchise, like a new IP, science fiction IP they're working on that is not Mass Effect?
I don't know.
I don't think it was this, either.
Maybe a mystery IP.
Dragon Age in space!
That's Mass Effect, Loki. That's Mass Effect.
No, it's not.
Mass Effect in medieval time.
No, they're not.
That's Dragon Age.
That's not.
Medieval Mass Effect in space.
It isn't, because there is no planet on Mass Effect where you will fucking spend 40 hours running-
In the Hinterlands!
If the Hinterlands were a planet.
Alright, anyway.
Hinterworlds.
Alright, DarkStalker, what do you have for us in the news?
I've got some stuff. Interesting stuff.
In fact, so interesting that it was- I actually stopped and went, really?
Apparently Square Enix Holdings have filed separate trademark applications for Squaresoft and Enix.
This was posted by a Japanese trademark bot Twitter account.
That basically anytime a trademark is filed, it pulls it from trade journals and makes it public.
So this was posted on January 19th that Square Enix posted the two trademark applications.
Again, Squaresoft, which was the former Square brand, and then one for Enix.
So take that for what you will.
It could just be possible that they're trying to make sure that those names don't get taken up once any expiration has occurred.
But, there you go.
I'd say take that for what you will.
Which, I really don't know how to read into that.
Like, I think obviously we have to address the first conclusion some people might jump to is that Square Enix is gonna split?
No.
No, that's not gonna happen.
Well, especially since we've got so many different merging IPs with them now.
Right, and don't forget, Eidos is a factor now too. I mean, if that were to happen, what would happen to Tomb Raider?
Like, you know, that's not really a thing. I don't see that happening.
All I care is that we get another bus to move.
Maybe, and you know what, if that's the whole reason for this to happen, then I am totally fine with it.
Goddammit, we're gonna make bus move, even if we have to leave.
And have it not be that dance summit. Even though dance summit was fun.
It needs to be old school bus to move.
I would be happy.
I would love that if that's the reason. Could it be maybe that, like,
Can we end the game?
Could there be, like, mobile phone development under one, but I don't, like, I think there already
I think it's more of a protection.
Ah.
To keep other people, you know, because especially if you, you know, if you also notice this, the tweets also did have trademark category 16.
Which refers to printed materials, like video game manuals, magazines, strategy guides.
So, I think it's more or less something just to protect past holdings.
So, take that for what you will.
That's a very good thought, and that's probably really all this is, is so that Loki can't go in there and say,
Oh, I'm going to make bus to move part 3, and I'm going to make it under Enix because there's no longer a trademark for that.
However, however, we should actually just, like, form a company for shits called Squeenix.
And we do nothing but sell squeaky hammers. Squeenix! Maybe.
Love it. Alright. Let's travel around the world and check out what game releases are coming out this week in game stores.
If anything at all. I know it's a slower time of year, but we did have Evolve last week.
Uh, Loki, what's it look like in the US?
I have fucking no idea.
Oh, and we had the new 3DS. Let me not leave that out.
Well, no.
This weekend, those Friday, Nintendo's Friday thing always freaking kills me.
Oh, God. Yeah, you know, I don't know.
Nintendo's like on their own page as far as like when they're going to release stuff.
And that was, it was funny enough, when I first started, you know, back when I was selling video games,
when I first started doing that, it was just like, oh, hey, you know what?
Um, we're going to go ahead and just release shit whenever we want.
Then everybody kind of got on board with how the movie industry works and, oh, we're going to release shit now on Tuesdays.
And everything was cool.
Except for fucking Nintendo, who decided, hey, we're going to release shit now on Fridays.
Or Sundays. Or God knows whenever it doesn't fucking matter because we're going to pick whenever we release shit.
So that's, that's my story there.
Anyways, so I was going to mention, let's see here.
God, I hate fucking website redesigns here.
If someone wants to go ahead, I'm still waiting on this shit to load.
No problem. I can go ahead and jump over to Japan and check out the Japanese releases of what's coming out in these next few days in Japan.
Dead or Alive 5, which I actually think is one of the releases here in the States this week, Logan.
Oh, that's right. Yeah, the re-release, yeah.
Dead or Alive 5 is making its way to Japan as well on the PlayStation 4.
Dead or Alive 5 last round in the collector's edition and what they called the Sakyuu package is making its way to Japan on the 19th.
That is on the PlayStation 4.
Also, God Eater 2 Rage Burst is out in Japan this week on the PlayStation 4.
And Terraria gets its Japanese retail release this week on the PlayStation 4 as well.
Over on the Xbox One, Dead or Alive 5 will make its way there for those of you, yea, few, but loyal who have the Xbox One over in Japan.
On the PlayStation 3, of course, Dead or Alive 5 on its way there as well.
And it is worth noting that there, with the release of Dead or Alive 5, you also have all these new fighting sticks and joysticks and so forth to celebrate the release of that.
Nothing on the 360 in Japan this week, but looking at the Wii U, I don't believe has anything until March.
No, I lied. No, I didn't lie because that date I'm looking at is for the US next week for Kirby.
Mario Party 10 is the next release in March on the Wii U.
In Japan on the PlayStation Vita, God Eater 2 Rage Burst is on the Vita as well.
Fur Ayaki 3 comes out as well.
Otoko Yukaku comes out as well.
And there's actually a new Vita pack, a debut pack Wi-Fi model in what they call blue black, red black, and there's a crystal black 3G Wi-Fi model.
I didn't even know they were still putting those out, but those are all coming out in Japan this week, obviously.
Probably the Japanese culture lends itself a little differently to the 3G.
That's it, nothing on the 3DS this week.
I was going to mention, you pretty much hit it on the head, it's just Dead or Alive 5 last round for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
And Kirby and the Rainbow Curse for the Wii U. That's literally it.
This is honestly, I gotta say, just looking at what's come out this year so far, it's been the slowest year as far as releases.
Like, even in January, there's usually some stuff coming out, but it was, like, dead.
And so far in February, it's been dead.
Do you think this means that we're going to have a really crowded holiday or summer period?
I don't know what it means. I think it's just kind of going on that trend where we're getting less of the fringe and more of, like,
these big projects that they're working on instead of releasing.
You know, big AAA titles instead of just releasing a bunch of titles, they're just releasing a few really good titles.
Well, to be fair, I mean, Evolve was a pretty big deal, and that just, I mean, maybe not for me personally,
but I know a lot of people were really looking forward to that, and that was, you know, just this last week.
Yeah, I understand that, but, I mean, what else have we really had this year?
We had Saints Row, Gata out of Hell, Dying Light, and Evolve.
I mean, that's three games in the course of, you know, a month and a half.
Yeah, it has been a little slower. A month and a half.
Yeah.
Dark Sakura, how about the UK? Is it slow over there, too?
Yeah, a little. We've got, on the 19th, the Order 1886 on PlayStation 4.
And then on the 20th, there's Dead or Alive 5 last round on everything, pretty much.
That's it.
Alright.
Oh, and I'm sorry, there was a little bit of a bigger one that I completely missed.
Uh-oh.
The Order 1886 is actually coming out.
Oh, is that this week?
That's on the 20th.
Oh, I thought that was next week.
I thought that game had been delayed, to be honest.
You know what it is? I don't realize we're as late in February as we are.
Like, that is really throwing me for a loop.
Like, oh my god, the 20th is in this next week?
I just crazy care about the game.
I don't know, but, yeah, so the Order 1886, that's coming out as well.
Well, that is a pretty big deal, Loogie.
Alright.
For some people, for some people.
It's one that some PlayStation 4 owners have been waiting for.
Alright, just a couple more stories for you guys than the classic game of the week.
Loogie, you got a pretty big one.
Alright, so, I, you know, I can't say that I'm surprised, because I'm not.
Because I've been seeing this since Fable 2, I guess.
Um, Peter Molyneux, backing, you know, he can't live up to his hype, I guess.
And so, for example, Goddess.
Um, there was the whole contest that was based around that stupid curiosity.
What the fuck is in the cube?
Let's waste your time clicking on the cube.
You know, that bullshit.
And, fucking, the winner of that was supposed to get, you know, basically be a god in the game.
And they were gonna get, like, part of, you know, the proceeds, or part of the revenue from the game or something like that.
And, two years after this contest has ended, still hasn't fulfilled his promise to the winner.
And, that's just really stupid.
And, on top of that, you know, Goddess, I think is, I still think it's very early in all the, like, features and stuff that they were talking about it.
It's just not up to where it needs to be at this point, especially since the Kickstarter ended, what I think.
It was a while ago.
A while ago, yeah. So, they haven't fulfilled a lot of the rewards for the backers.
They are, you know, cutting features that they were, you know, promising that they would be doing.
It's just, it's a big old fucking mess.
And, I want to say that it was, they had a Rock Paper Shotgun article or something that called them out on that kind of thing.
Which, I didn't even really read it because I just heard it was just, it's...
It was, it was hard to read because, I mean, I get that there are people out there that want to ask hard hitting questions.
And, I think you can do that. But, I felt their approach was very tactless.
I mean, the very first question in the interview is, are you a pathological liar?
And, what kind of tone does that set?
I mean, I think that's just kind of fucking rude.
I mean, I realize that this game is stumbling and so forth.
But, you know, this guy is, whether you love him or hate him, he's worked very hard in the game industry.
And, he's made some incredibly notable influential games.
Whether you like him or not, you know, I just feel like that kind of question...
There's a way to ask that without kind of being a dick.
Like, instead of that, why not ask, you know, why notice in your Kickstarter campaign you said X, Y, and Z would happen.
Here we are 18 months later and X, Y, Z hasn't happened.
Can you explain why these situations seem to continue to happen out of your company?
I think there's a much better tactful way to ask a hard question than, are you a fucking liar?
Which, you know, is basically what I read when I read a question like that about being a pathological liar.
That was really rough, I think.
And, I mean, I don't know. I've been saying that, you know, especially when they're talking about how important the dog would be in Fable 2 and shit.
And it just wasn't that. Or like, you know, when they're talking up Fable 3 and when they're talking up just like...
I don't know, just pretty much anything I hear him hyping up.
I can't get hyped up about it because I know it's full of shit.
Or, it's not full of shit, but it's like he's talking up stuff like it's evolutionary, like this is the first time ever that something's happened like this.
And it's just not. It's just like a normal feature in a game.
Let me go to some comments from our chat room. Bobby Blackwolf, our pal here at VoG, giving us some insight in the chat over at live.vognetwork.com saying,
I've met Molyneux. Here's the thing. The problem with him is that he loves games too much and he loves talking about them.
He loves talking about his ideas, but we all take his ideas as absolute final features in a finished product.
He doesn't see them as that way, but that doesn't come across.
His love of games is infectious even if you only sit and talk to him for two minutes.
Well, let me... I mean, when you... I get that. I totally get that.
But now you have this Kickstarter thing, which maybe wasn't a factor before in Molyneux's career,
which was now, do you think, and I ask everybody, not just Bobby, like everybody I'm asking this question,
do you think that maybe with Molyneux kind of dreaming big, that led to saying things in the Kickstarter
that maybe they didn't really have the plan on how they were going to get there?
Well, that's the problem though. But if you've been in game development that long,
then you should be able to know what you're capable of accomplishing.
And I'm sorry, I don't buy that he's so passionate about games that he's fucking terrible
at figuring out what his company's able to do in a timely manner.
I mean, that's the thing. He's been in the game industry for a while.
He should know how to hit deadlines, know about how to make sure that the features
that he's promising are going to be in there.
Because he's had the answer to people before about games.
They didn't just say, yeah, Fable 2 is going to be this fucking amazing game
that's going to be super immersive and that's going to be online multiplayer, blah, blah, blah, or whatever.
And then just totally back down on that. I mean, he's got to answer to somebody.
He's not new to this, and I just don't buy that this late into the game
that he doesn't know what he's doing.
But I just have to say on this whole thing, this just continues this really unfortunate trend
that has existed in gaming for a long time, has really come up to a head this past year
where there's just a real lack of respect in gaming, and it's really sad to see happen.
There's always going to be differences of opinion, depending on how you believe
a game's journalism website should or should not be run, or how a game should or should not be made,
and who should or should not have a say in the making of those games.
We're all going to have differing opinions on that. That's going to happen.
But we need to show a little respect for those diversities of opinions.
That is something that has been gravely lacking, and we've really seen this come to a head,
especially in the past year, and it's sad.
Well, they're driving away people that, you know, like he mentioned, you know,
I'm not going to talk to press anymore, you know, and even like look at Notch, you know,
he kind of had the same thing where he's like, well, I'm not going to talk to you people anymore
because you're being fucking rude to these people.
If gamers can't get over this respect, and I'm sorry, and I hate to call this out,
but it is what it is. That Rock Paper Shotgun interview is an example of what I believe to be a lack of respect.
Once again, though, just like even like, I hate to try to cross paths here,
but even like with like the whole gamer gate crap that's going on there,
you have to also remember one thing, that you can't judge one person by the whole industry
or whole group of people. Like, just because they were dicks in their article
doesn't mean that like every game outlet out there is going to be dicks to you.
I mean, same with, you know, gamers. Just because one gamer is a fucking asshole
and is like being mean to people on the internet doesn't mean everybody does that.
You can't make these broad generalizations.
However, and I will point out the hashtag not all men and yes all women,
just because it is a group of people that are behaving that way and not the entire thing,
you don't know if the people that you're talking to are among them.
If you see it so public and it has happened so often,
you're going to have a fear of speaking to anybody associated with that group.
You have to protect yourself if you can't deal with it.
Which is why I think we need to get away from groupthink in the first place.
Indeed, but that's how society is born.
No matter what your angle is, you have to get away from groupthink.
But that's how society is.
I understand that, but society, there's many people everywhere.
You're going to just, might as well just close yourself in a closet and hide.
There's people like that.
Well, I'm sorry, but I mean, you can't just, that has not an excuse that,
oh, there's a few people doing it, so now I have to assume everybody is.
If you have had nothing but this negative experience, it's reinforced it every time it happens.
Then you need to get out in the world and have more experiences.
Hold on, hold on. I think, I think, and trying to move on and move the show forward,
I think also it's important for, you know, we're talking about two extremes here.
And I think that's why it's important for the rest of us in the middle to say to the mean people,
hey, shut up, let this person have their say, and let's have a respectful dialogue.
It's up to the rest of us to not, to basically credit those mean people, if that makes sense.
Well, the whole point is that in order to, in order to keep stuff like this from happening,
we have to have a method of policing our own pretty much.
People have to be held accountable for the things that they say.
And then, and then it's tough because free speech, you know.
No, free speech has nothing to do with accountability.
I know, I know.
Free speech only, the free speech argument in the Constitution only has to do with discussing the government in acceptable locations.
It has nothing to do with freedom of consequence.
But you know someone's thinking it.
They're, they're, then they're an idiot and clearly haven't studied U.S. history.
All right.
Or government.
I got to move on in the interest of time because we could probably spend three hours talking about all of the problems in gaming right now.
But you know, I don't know.
I want to see good things happen with the game and I want good things to happen to Peter Molyneux, who I think is a great mind.
But it does sound like, you know, maybe he's bit off a little more and he can chew.
Hopefully this whole reserving a little bit, maybe going back into the shell for a little bit,
maybe the good that can come of that is he can really focus on what's important right now and that is making Godus the great game it can be.
And just think, if some more people are mean to other developers, they can make another Law and Order episode out of it.
Don't go there.
Let's go.
Let's go to some more news.
We're going to talk about Banjo-Kazooie.
There's a Banjo-Kazooie spiritual successor on its way from Rare Veterans.
Now, keep in mind that, you know, certain IPs are held by certain people.
So this isn't, you know, like Banjo-Kazooie sequel.
But there is a group of Rare employees who have a new indie team called Playtonic Games.
And Playtonic has been publishing some little teasers there about what the spiritual successor to Banjo-Kazooie might look like.
Now, obviously, we don't know what platforms this is going to be on because this is still very early teases.
And when I say spiritual successor, I mean like how Mighty No. 9 is a spiritual successor to Mega Man, right?
Wink, wink, nudge, nudge.
Well, anyhow, there's more information that was published in Edge Magazine, which includes some pictures and so forth.
That you can take a look at. This is all still very early on, of course.
But it is nice to know that fans of Banjo-Kazooie at least have something to look forward to, even if not a direct sequel.
I'm totally looking forward to Guitar Flutie.
Let's hope. Let's hope. Guitar Flutie.
One can only hope.
Alright, well let's travel back to a time. Let's go back to a simpler time in games.
Maybe when Banjo-Kazooie was actually a thing.
Actually, you know what? Fuck that. Let's go even further back this week.
Because Dark Soccer is going to step into the gaming vault and find a game that she thinks,
Hey, you guys should be checking out this game this week.
It is a classic video game worthy of your attention.
It's older than a lot of you.
This is a real old game this week.
It's creaky.
Alright, let's check it out. The classic game of the week.
The classic game of the week is Munchkin.
Munchkin was cartridge number 38 in the Magnavox Phillips line of games for the Phillips video pack.
We got it on the Odyssey 2 in North America as a game called Casey Munchkin.
Which was a reference to the president of the company at the time, Kenneth C. Mencken.
So this game was programmed by Ed Averitt.
And it was based a lot off of Pac-Man.
You don't say.
But not an exact clone.
Atari, however, got their panties in a bunch.
Because of how similar it was.
Atari had been licensed to produce the first version of Pac-Man at home.
But Munchkin came out before Pac-Man.
Munchkin was out in 1981, a year before Pac-Man was ready for release.
And it was probably better than Pac-Man.
It's quite a bit better.
On Atari, on Atari.
So an Atari could not convince the court at all to stop the sale of Munchkin.
But they did win in appeals.
So in 1982, they basically said that Phillips copied Pac-Man.
And made alterations only to emphasize the extent to which it deliberately copied.
I just want to note, I did kill the sound on the video.
Because that noise does grate a little left.
That is one place where Munchkin was a little weaker, I think.
That noise does get a little grating.
So I went ahead and killed that soundtrack.
Than the Atari version of Pac-Man.
But anyway, the ruling was actually, this is really, really important.
Because it was one of the first ones to establish how copyright law applied to computer software.
So, that being said, the differences it has from Pac-Man is that there are 12 pills in the game called Munchies.
In each maze.
And they are in four groups of three.
But they move through the maze independently and at different speeds.
Depending on how fast one is eaten.
The final one moves at exactly the same speed as Munchkin and you have to intercept it.
The super pills are called Blinking Munchies because they flash and change color.
Some of the mazes are invisible as soon as you start moving.
It has a programmable mode where you can make your own mazes.
Because that was like the big thing about The Odyssey.
Is that it was, you could include programmable elements into a lot of your games.
And keep in mind, The Odyssey 2 was one of the first video game systems I ever played.
Well, it was one of the first, I think, that most people of a certain age ever played.
Because it was all that was there.
Well, yeah.
I mean, you had the fair trial channel left.
Anyway.
So, the boxes where the ghosts regenerate actually rotate.
So, the ghosts can exit from any side.
It adds a lot more challenge to it.
And you can actually enter the boss.
If you're powered up, you can actually eat the monsters while they regenerate.
It's kind of cool.
The monsters are called Munchers and you're called the Munchkin.
You have three Munchers instead of the four ghosts.
And Munchkin actually has fewer objects on the game board.
But renders them with better color and animation.
So, overall, yes.
Graphically, it's better.
It plays better.
It has a lot more elements to it.
But, there we go.
So, after Munchkin got pushed off.
Phillips put out a sequel called Crazy Chase.
Or in the U.S. we got it as Casey's Crazy Chase.
Which actually was more of a parody of that whole conflict.
By pitting the Munchkin across an insect tree eating opponent called the Dratapillar.
That looked like the centipede from Atari.
So, you basically power up and advance.
Not by eating the pills, but by eating the Dratapillar's body.
And so, that's Crazy's Crazy Chase.
And also, the Munchkin character was redesigned to roll through the mazes without a continuous chomping animation like Pac-Man did.
And I actually have both of these games.
A lot of the copies of Casey Munchkin are gone.
I mean, they were tried to round up, destroyed.
And I actually looked into my copy at a thrift store for 25 cents.
Wow.
Yeah.
Along with a copy of Crazy Chase.
So, I got them both.
Wow.
Especially considering these games are kind of like, you know, now you see them on those, these games were banned type of specials.
You know, even though that might be a, you know.
I don't think it's that terribly hard to find it.
But Casey Munchkin, Casey's Crazy Chase isn't that bad as far as finding a copy.
But Casey Munchkin, because of just the drama around it.
Right.
It's kind of a, if you find a copy, keep it.
I don't even care if you have an Odyssey 2.
Just keep it.
Or is it Odyssey squared?
It's a piece of gaming history one way or the other.
Yes, it is.
And it's actually a really fun little game.
So.
But maybe on mute with your own soundtrack.
Go to OLR while you play.
And play it on mute.
Although I will say of all the Pac-Man clones, nothing touches mousetrap.
I want to see Casey Munchkin get the 3D, you know.
I want to see that brought modern day.
You want Munchkin in the Oculus Rift?
No, I want to see Munchkin as like a cartoon character.
Like we have a Pac-Man.
I want to see it ripping off everything.
Hey, if Casey Munchkin can get, you know, can be around.
Can we get Sanic?
Do you want to see if me, Sanic the Hedgehog.
Sanic the Hodgehog.
So, okay.
So Casey Munchkin checking eBay.
It really doesn't, now if you have a complete copy of Casey Munchkin, 20 bucks.
There is a, yeah there's a few on here, like there's posters and stuff.
But yeah, you're not really going to pay that much for a copy of Casey Munchkin.
Except, you know, keep in mind, people are generally asking anywhere between 15 to 20 bucks start for it.
Right.
Which for a Magnavox Odyssey 2 game, that is kind of crazy.
So.
But these games are getting close to 35 years old, so if you can believe it.
Yeah, they're older than some of you.
Many of you actually.
Yes.
I think older than Loki, I think actually.
Just by a few months.
So.
Are you really that young?
Yeah, Loki's what, 34?
In a row?
Oh wait, that's 37.
There we go.
That's Rob.
That's me.
No, not till June.
You know what?
Don't age me.
Faster than I need to.
You know what?
What?
I'm still older than you, so shut up.
I know, I know.
And I'm broken.
I have to get a hip replacement, y'all.
Well it's okay, Dorian Gray over there, you know, Bobby Blackwolf, he's been what, you know, what age has he been for the last?
29.
He's been 29.
He's been 29 for like a long time, so.
You just don't look at the painting, Bobby.
That's all you have to do.
Alright, alright.
There it is.
Your classic game of the week.
Munchkin, or KC Munchkin as the case may be.
Yes.
For the Odyssey.
Alright.
Again, play on mute.
But you know what was the best?
What?
Crypt equip.
Have you done that as a game of the week?
I don't think you have.
I don't think I have.
You may have to bring that up.
Oh, cryptologic or whatever the fuck they called it.
Yeah.
Where you basically, it just, it's the word scramble is all it is.
That game was fun.
Hey, still, you know, it was probably one of the first on a television.
I think I did Quest for the Rings before.
Yes, that one you did.
I remember that one.
Anyway, we'll talk during the break about more classic games.
I was in second grade.
But we're gonna take a quick break, guys.
When we come back, there's plenty more Orange Lounge Radio to come, including the forum follow-up, the FUGL question of the week.
Your calls at 1-877-GAME-OLR or a username on Skype, Orange Lounge Radio.
We will get to your calls when we come back with more of Orange Lounge Radio right after this.
Welcome back, everybody, to Orange Lounge Radio.
Live this evening on February the 15th of 2015 with episode number 587 of our program.
Hope you guys all had a good Valentine's Day, however you chose to celebrate it.
I'm sure there's some of you out there that say, well, it's Singles Awareness Day.
Well, I hope you found a pet to love because, you know, we love our pets here at Orange Lounge Radio, our kitties and puppies.
So, you know, this is always a good time to remind you guys to consider adopting a pet if you need someone to love on Valentine's Day.
And even if you already have a human being, you know, couples could always use pets, right?
I think all of us here in the room have some pets. We do love pets.
Some of our significant others are pets.
That's another way to look at it. Absolutely.
I have two pets, Dan and the cat.
There you go. There you go.
All right, let's get into tonight's forum follow-up.
Over at the forums over at vognetwork.com, forums.vognetwork.com, every week I try to select a few posts,
talk about here on the show kind of following up what we talked about on last week's program.
And even though I had made a few posts this week, I didn't get a lot of feedback on them,
but there was this one, which did actually get quite a few responses, so I thought I'd bring this post up, and that was about educational games.
And you might remember at the end of last week's show, Dark Soccer, I think, or maybe it was Loki,
was talking about a Doctor Who game that actually helps teach children to code.
And it was kind of part of a broader BBC initiative.
And it had me thinking about educational games.
And I know we've had a FUGO question probably very similar to this in the past,
but usually when educational games comes up, the same games are always named, right?
What do we think of right off the bat?
Carmen Sandiego, Number Munchers, and Oregon Trail, right?
Those are like the big three. Turtle.
Yeah, well, I mean, but then there's those that I think we're a little more attached to,
and I wanted to ask on the forums, what games really shaped you?
What do you remember playing, and what do you look back on and say, yes, that game actually had an impact on me?
Like, for example, one game that I remember, it was an educational game from my youth,
and one that I mentioned here was a game called Weather Tamers on the Commodore 64.
And a lot of y'all probably never heard of this game, and it was, you know, it was a very kind of under-the-radar game.
But in college, when I originally started college, believe it or not, I know some of you might find this hard to believe,
I wanted to be a weatherman at first, and that was something I was learning to do.
And I would actually say that game had a little bit, not total influence on that, but had a little bit of influence on that.
And that was a Commodore 64 game where you had, like, a giant map,
and you could move, like, high pressure and low pressure around to kind of, I don't want to say you played God,
but you definitely, like, could control the weather, and the goal was to make certain weather situations in towns.
So it was kind of a way to learn geography as well as, you know, what makes rain, what makes snow, what makes tornadoes, and things like that.
So that was a game that I remember, was Weather Tamers.
So some of you guys in our forums responded to this as well.
Bobby Blackwell mentioned a game called Agent USA, and in this game you would learn cities and states,
and you had to type them in exactly. This also helped you learn about time zones.
That would affect it when you would get somewhere, and you needed to know what cities were state capitals,
because that's where you got the better trains, and he goes on to say, I never beat it as a kid.
SSG100Matt shared a game called Memory Manor, which was on the ColecoVision,
saying that I remember playing this game back in first grade on the Coleco Adam computer system.
You play as a window washer with a helping helicopter trying to clean windows that have corresponding symbols on them.
It forces you to memorize the windows and strategically place your washing fluid supply so you can clean windows efficiently.
So it's kind of like a, you know, it's in the title there. It was Memory. It was a play on the game Memory.
And Odell Lake was mentioned too, and I saw a lot of people on Twitter, because I talked about this post on Twitter,
and a lot of people were responding with Odell Lake, and SSG100Matt saying, I played this in grade school.
This is a very popular game among the kids in my class along with Oregon Trail.
This is a play for points kind of educational game, but I remember doing worksheets that were supplied by the game.
The object was to play as a certain kind of fish and make decisions as to which fish or bacteria to eat, chase, ignore, or swim away in deep or shallow water.
I remember that it was cool to be the rainbow trout so you could eat just about anything except the otter and osprey.
Flaco Jones shares that he also appreciated Odell Lake, but one thing I remember fondly about the Commodore 64 was the plastic piano overlay
that was only used for a few games including Commodore Music Maker, and I don't even remember this.
I was a big Commodore 64 fan. I never saw that plastic overlay. That is awesome.
There's a little YouTube here he linked in our forums saying, I didn't stick with it, but I wish I had,
because looking back it seems like an awesome way to teach music. I was too busy messing around with it. Awesome.
Loki, you responded too that you also loved Odell Lake.
Yeah, I completely forgot about it. It was a fun game to play, and I think I was also in the rainbow trout so you could eat everything.
What was it about that game that you remember? See, somehow this one was not on my radar. I never really played this game growing up.
I mean, I kind of get why people like it now, but I missed out on it, unfortunately. It wasn't at my school, I guess.
I don't remember, to be honest. Why I liked it, I think, is because I got to eat things. That's funny.
You got to eat things.
Same reason why you got to hunt and kill everything in the hunting parts in the Oregon Trail.
And now look at it all these years later. What does he do? He comes on OLR and he likes to eat things. There it is.
And I like to shoot things in video games. How we've changed.
Thank you guys for your responses. I'll be posting some follow-up topics throughout the week over at our forums at vognetwork.com.
Check it out and feel free to start your own topic. You don't have to wait for me to say something.
What is it that they have in computer labs nowadays?
That's a really good question. I don't know. You will be finding that out pretty soon, I imagine, when Josh gets ready to start grade school and so forth.
Yeah, but not for a couple of years.
It's still a few years away. Maybe our chat room can help us out. Maybe those that have children in grade school, because I know some of our listeners have children.
What do they look like nowadays? I'd be very curious as well.
So I'm sure they're not playing the old ass copy of Floppy Dizzy. What the fuck is this?
No, but I imagine at a very young age they are probably teaching typing. You know, how to properly type.
And there's probably a lot of games that reinforce that because it's so important.
I would hope at a younger age there are simulations and experiences that talk about privacy online and how to be careful what you write in an email and things like that.
I hope they're kind of sharing those types of things as well.
I'd be curious if our chatters know the answers to that question. What do computer labs look like nowadays? I want to know.
Meanwhile, while we wait for some answers to that question, let's go through some rapid fire news tonight. Loki.
Alright. Yeah, because honestly if they're not going to have, well I'm sure they have updated versions of The Oregon Trail.
The Binding of Isaac Rebirth. It's going to be getting some DLC which they're titling after birth. That's awesome.
Oh lord.
They said it should easily extend the gameplay time by another 100-200 hours. Which is just ridiculous.
Wow.
Things that it will include. Over 100 new items in the game. A full new game mode that will totally change how you play.
New challenges, new playable character, alternate final chapter, new alternate floors, new game ending, new bosses, new items, new co-op babies, new transformations.
Sounds like a whole new game. So that should be coming out later on this year. So I'll take a look at it.
And then, this is kind of cool, new features coming out to the Xbox One. Even though it is something that we've been able to do on PC and other consoles.
But now, the Xbox One is going to be able to take screenshots and you'll be able to share the screenshots.
And how do we know this? Because Phil Spencer took a screenshot and shared said screenshot using the feature over Twitter.
And so, that's pretty cool. You'll be able to do that as well as video and stuff.
And then this is all sorts of exciting. This brings me back to like, Urguts.
But they announced that Final Fantasy Disidea is going to be getting a brand new arcade game.
And you know, basically a 3 on 3 battle game. And it looks awesome.
And they're not necessarily going to be talking about details of the game on April 10th.
So happy to hear that arcades are still getting games that are not just ticket spitters. Except Japan only, right?
I'm just saying though, hey, I'm all for the arcades getting this game. But can we get this game too? Because it looks awesome.
Only if it shoots out tickets. Is the only way you're going to see it over here, probably.
Hey, Nintendo. There you go. Have it spit out tickets that you can go redeem at, well since they're embedded GameStop. Go redeem at GameStop.
Alright, well some news I have is PlayStation made some announcements about the PlayStation Network this week about converting what they call a sub account to a master account.
Now a lot of our listeners might not be very familiar with this unless you, again, have children at home of a certain age.
Probably like a young teenager. You may have had that teenager have a sub account.
And what this was is this was a way that somebody under the age of 18 could access PlayStation Network but parents or guardians would still manage the online experience.
So you have these sub accounts. Well PlayStation announced this week you will now be able to upgrade those sub accounts to master accounts.
I mean PlayStation Network's been really up and running full speed since PlayStation 3. I mean some could argue PlayStation 2.
But it's really been full speed since PlayStation 3. PlayStation 3 launched almost 10 years ago now. It was 2006 when PS3 launched, right?
So next year will be the 10 year anniversary. So a lot of those 14 and 15 year olds that might have had some of these sub accounts are going to be 24 and 25.
So then again, I don't know how long they've been offering sub accounts. But regardless, folks are getting older and they move on and might want to keep that old PlayStation account.
So they can now migrate it from a sub account to a master account. More information available on the official PlayStation blog.
We'll need a size zero Phillips screwdriver to do such training.
Stop. One of the producers over at Capcom, Ray Jimenez, would like to see a Bayonetta and Devil May Cry crossover.
As I think a lot of us would like to see. So this quote, definitely raising some eyebrows this week.
Quote, as a developer and a gamer, I would love to do that and how that would happen. Well, let me just say to you, that would be the most insane Gonzo action game you would ever see with tag team back and forth switching and combos with stylish Dante or whoever coming in and doing stuff.
It would actually be a dream come true. I'm sure with Capcom it's possible to do really cool things, but I don't know if this would ever happen.
But I can't deny that the thought of it would be totally mind-blowing. I'm sure Platinum would be on board with doing something crazy.
Just like Tim Gunn says, make it work. Figure out the license. Make it work.
Between the two companies, if I were to take a guess or stab at who would not be on board with it, I would say it's Capcom. If Capcom's on board with it, then there should be no fucking problem with it.
They should be able to do it.
Well, we'll see. We'll see. Also, one other story here. We mentioned earlier about Ubisoft and the Wii U, and we know that Ubisoft kind of pulled their support of the Wii U and ended up canceling a few titles in the process.
Well, some more information surfaced this week about what one of those Wii U titles was. It was actually a little bit of a party game. It was a game called Know Your Friends.
This was dug up this week, and it was a quiz game that was developed by Ubisoft Paris, and it sounds like it was kind of a spiritual successor of sorts to We Dare, because some of the questions were flirtatious and maybe inappropriate.
And by all means, I'm glad they cancelled it. It sounds fucking terrible.
Yeah, I think a lot of people were thinking like, oh man, Ubisoft cancelled Zombie U 2, they suck, but then you hear that they cancelled this, and you're like, oh, well maybe.
Assassin's Creed 4 on Wii U still?
I don't think it was, actually.
So there you go. In fact, I'm pretty sure it wasn't, because I think that was a lot of the rabble rabble from fans behind that because of that.
Anyhow, are we on 4 or 5? I don't even remember what the fucking Assassin's Creed were on that.
Wait, 4 is Black Flag. That was the last one, wasn't it?
I think Black Flag was that one.
Sorry, I can't keep track of them anymore.
Alright, Dark Sakura.
Well, if you are a fan of Shingeki no Kyojin, which is also Attack on Titan, Capcom's making an arcade game.
God, it's like arcade resurgence again.
I know. You get to get eaten by huge giants and hide behind walls.
Actually, the whole thing is I would love to see how they actually incorporate the 3D defense.
Yes, you should be able to strap into some sort of rig that kind of...
Yeah, that would be fun.
What if it was all that third, first person, or you had a motion control that showed up?
I can't imagine how awesome that game would be.
At any rate, Atlas USA is rumored on doing a localization to Nintendo 3DS of a game based off of the anime.
So, who knows?
I just wish we could get more anime because it was awesome.
I think the last thing I watched were those first two seasons of Attack on Titan and then I watched Kill la Kill.
Where is the second season?
Yeah, there were two seasons. Not localized.
Damn it.
I need the second season then.
I can't speak Japanese, so you know.
Sounds like Dark Soccer's offering to help you out over there.
No, I'll just... fine. Internet. We'll do it.
Internet!
Insert eye roll here.
It's okay. He won't stop and ask for directions either.
So, you know what? This is the big bullshit.
The whole transferring your old 3DS data to the new 3DS is really not so straightforward and people are complaining about it a lot.
And Nintendo finally is just like, look, this is how you do it. Here's a video. Get over it.
But it is worth noting that a lot of people are really fixated on the whole screwdriver, take the thing out and all this.
And you can also transfer over Wi-Fi. It just takes a long time to do it that way.
Do it overnight.
Or do it while you're listening to OLR, right?
But also I think one thing to consider is that if you have a big card in your DS now, you're gonna have to get a big card in the new 3DS.
And you're gonna have to buy a power supply.
Or you're gonna be doing the screwdriver trick.
So, it's a little... I mean, I think we live in a world where computers in the 1990s, I take a disk out of this computer and I put it in this computer and I can access everything on it.
And it's like, I think the fact that it's not that easy with Nintendo is what's blowing people's minds.
I don't understand why you have the microSD card hidden behind a compartment that requires a screwdriver to open it up.
As far as I'm aware, there are SD card slots that can do the microSD cards and...
The same reason there's no charger. Every nickel and dime.
Or it's still a proprietary charger instead of, I don't know, USB like every other fucking device on the planet.
Anyway, Mortal Kombat X, I wanna say 10 but it's X, is going to try to have more realistic portrayals of women.
While you're chopping body parts off and breaking faces and shit.
Unless, of course, those realistic portrayals of women include them being part B, in which case, yes, that is true.
Basically, they said that we always wanted to be realistic, you know, like really realistic I guess.
But they wanted to try to get proportions back to what would be on a normal athletic woman.
You know, not like overly too big boobs that would smack you in the face like dead or alive.
Cause I'm sorry, cause like, yes, the ginormous breasts are what they're gonna see in Mortal Kombat.
Not the, you know, doing an uppercut into someone's groin or perhaps, you know, breaking body parts in x-ray mode and stuff like that.
Or ripping someone in half. Yes, but it's the giant breasts that they'll notice.
I was looking at one of the renders on here. It looks like it's the one of Kitana.
And she does actually have like normal hips.
A normal, I'd probably say not like, it's still like a supermodel type of level of hip to waist ratio.
But it does look like an actual human being.
And not like impossibly tiny with huge hips and boobs to infinity.
Remember when they did have those proportions accurate because they were actual human beings?
Right? Back when they were like scanned people.
But you do have to see a little bit of irony in this game that's like we're not being overly sexual when it is the most over the top violent gore fest thing that's out there.
You have to see a little bit of humor in that.
It's the society we live in cause God forbid you show a little bit of nipple.
But ripping someone in half and, you know, severing their body parts all over the place, that's okay.
And the reason why I bring that up is that I do love the Mortal Kombat series and all its goofy, ridiculous, over the top violence fun.
But I don't like movies like Saw and things like that. I've mentioned this before on the show.
But like with Mortal Kombat X there's a lot of where I'm looking at going like, okay, this is starting to look a little too real for me.
And I don't know if I'm down with this anymore. I liked it when it was stupid, you know?
And I don't know. I have feelings, Darkstalker. I have a lot of feelings about Mortal Kombat X. Do you have feelings?
Feelings. Oh.
I'll take that as a no.
Alright, let's get to the FUGL question of the week.
Every week we ask a question of our Facebook and Google Plus communities and you give us answers.
It's my vehicle.
Facebook.com slash Orange Lounge Radio or Google.com slash Plus Orange Lounge Radio is the place where you can hit us up on social media.
And this week we asked a question of our communities inspired by our guests tonight as we usually try to do when we have guests on the show.
We asked about with Star Mazer being this point and click and shoot them up gameplay that has really impressive pixel art in the game.
We thought, you know, this has us thinking about gorgeous pixel art in some games made out of pixels.
Maybe retro, maybe modern, you know, because a game like Star Mazer is modern but still has that retro pixel look.
So what is some of your favorite pixel art from across the years and years of gaming?
Guillermo R starts us off tonight on Facebook saying the Neo Geo in general served tons of amazing pixel art.
The Metal Slug series truly shines by pairing gorgeous, humorous sprites with fluid animation.
The upcoming Hyper Light Drifter looks damn beautiful as well.
I'm sure Dark Sakura would back that response up. I know she's a Neo Geo fan as well.
I loves my Neo Geo.
Just play Samurai Showdown, that's all.
Rage Nator says I don't have a single favorite but four that are basically tied.
Metal Slug, Neo Geo, Samurai Showdown 4, Neo Geo, Super Castlevania 4, Super Nintendo, and Actraiser, Super Nintendo.
All four are gorgeous, have great sound, and are a blast to play.
Surping Slurpee responds and says Final Fantasy, both old school and new, never fails to impress.
I have also found Sonic the Hedgehog games aesthetically pleasing.
Our answer is over on Facebook, facebook.com slash orange lounge radio.
Let's head on over to our Google Plus page and look at some of the answers there,
which I notice is getting closer and closer the number of responses we get on Google versus Facebook.
We actually had the same number of comments on Google tonight we did on Facebook.
I think that's because Facebook just basically doesn't show posts unless we pay to show them,
which don't get me started on that, but a little.
So I do urge you, if you want to answer the question each week, make sure you visit our Facebook page directly,
because I can't really afford to throw $20 at Facebook to boost every post.
I'd rather use that money somewhere else for the show.
Weird that we have to pay them to have the posts that we put to our community shown.
I know, right?
Yet those ads that they want us to see, oh.
Anyway, over on Google Plus, some of the answers over there.
Ronnie B. saying, Minecraft.
Certainly a very contemporary choice that probably owes a lot of its success to its art style.
Reddertainment says, MissNudeWorld96.
Oh, you.
And lastly, PrincePeachFuzz.
I do love that name.
PrincePeachFuzz replies and says, two of my favorites would be KingOfFighters13 and Metalslug2.
You know, I've got to say, for a frugal question of the week tonight,
I was not expecting, but I'm not surprised by, the amount of Neo Geo love there.
I mean, like, literally half the answers all had some type of Neo Geo game mentioned in there, so.
Very cool.
Quickly around the room, any pixel art in games that you just, you really are fond of?
Pixel art.
More recently, To The Moon.
That one's very, just, pretty overall.
Really harkens back to the look for Final Fantasy VI.
And it's really just a great story in pixel form.
I would actually throw out there, you know, some of my favorite was from the Super Nintendo era,
and I really loved, you know, again, maybe this is just my fan wank for this game,
but The Legend of Zelda, A Link to the Past.
It was such a different aesthetic at the time than I think we were seeing in a lot of Super Nintendo games.
So, I mean, the pixel art in that game is just amazing.
And honestly, if you want to talk about a true Super Nintendo classic,
look at essentially the very first game they ever put out on it.
Super Mario World, I think, to this day, holds up as some of the pinnacle of pixel art that's out there today.
Those are some of my choices.
Loki?
Well, I'm a huge fan of Paul Robinson, and so I have to go with Scott Pilgrim.
Oh, okay.
That was, it's just awesome.
Along with that, it's not really pixel art, but, I don't know, Journey, that was pretty good.
Yeah, it's not really pixel art.
You're cheating.
Broforce, I like Broforce.
Astol.
Oh.
And actually the 3DO slash Saturn era of, I would say, of pixel games.
I mean, look at Symphony of the Night.
Yeah, true.
All the character designs on that, and all of the 3D elements weren't so great on the Saturn,
but any of the pixel era games that were on Saturn were absolutely amazing,
because it was built to do 2D better than anything else at the time.
True.
Great answers from around the room and from around the internet over on Facebook and Google.
Let's get back into some news.
Loki?
All right.
So there was a little bit of funny business going on with Greenlight, and I guess I kind of understand why,
but they've basically, Valve has put a stop to people using incentives like giving out free keys
if you back them on Steam Greenlight to get their game pushed through.
So a lot of the times it was, oh, hey, if you back our game and our game gets pushed through,
we'll go ahead and give you a free key for it.
Well, they didn't like that sort of manipulation, so they're going to be not allowing that anymore.
Yeah, I don't even understand, like, where's the money to be made then if you keep giving away the game for free?
Well, the money to be made is that you can't sell it on Steam until it passes Greenlight,
so if you get enough people to back you, then you're going to be able to do that.
But then you gave it to all those people for free.
It doesn't matter, though.
So you gave it to a few people for free, gets the word out about your game.
Yeah, so it's the inertia.
Yeah, well, you can't sell it on Steam until you're on Steam.
Basically, they were saying, when you gave away copies in exchange for votes, you put us in a really uncomfortable position.
We do not think these votes accurately reflect the customer's interest,
and it makes our job harder in deciding which games customers would actually buy on Steam.
Additionally, when you give away copies of your games for votes, then every other developer on Greenlight thinks that's the thing they need to do to get noticed.
And we don't think that is healthy for our system, really what the consumer wants.
So, I'm glad that they addressed that.
Yeah, it definitely sounds like something that needed to get shut down, so I was surprised it took this long to happen,
but I guess probably finally just won too many of these campaigns.
Well, yeah, it sucks, because they already have a quality control issue, I think, with some of the games on Steam anyways,
and it wouldn't help that this is what you're going to have to do to get your game through. I don't know.
Alright, well, I like these stories where we hear some good news, some feel-good news coming out of the gaming industry,
and I think this is really cool. Sony is launching what's called PlayStation Heroes.
It's a PlayStation 4 app that encourages you to make charitable contributions to charities like Make-A-Wish,
the V Foundation for Cancer Research, USO.
What you do, you're going to pay between $1, $15, and you get a dynamic game theme.
Or you can pay $20 and you get a 4-theme bundle.
And this money will actually go to these causes, and you get an entry, essentially, into this contest to play games with a celebrity.
So you could actually play Shaun White, the snowboarder in Destiny.
You could, this would be awesome, you could play Snoop Dogg in a game.
That would be, oh my god, how high would he be doing that? That would be so much fun.
And one of the Dodgers.
Can you play Ice-T in Call of Duty? Because that would be pretty awesome.
So, yeah, the app is not going live until February 24th, but you can pre-order the app now if you want.
That's a really clever idea. You know, it's a neat little spin on when Blizzard for World of Warcraft would sell the pet in-game,
where all the money would go to charity.
And I think a lot of people really liked participating in that.
They tend to do those about once a year.
So I think this is a neat little spin on that, and certainly justifies the, you know, $4 for a theme or what have you,
if you know the money is going to a good cause. I think that's really cool.
DarkSakura.
Well, you know, we like to sort of poke a little bit at Zynga, because honestly, they deserve it.
There is an analyst out there who is calling for Don Mattrick to resign, because it was actually done by BTIG analyst Richard Greenfield,
said that it's a good idea for him to resign, because their earnings have just been absolutely dreadful.
He says, your strategy appears to be all over the place.
Your core franchises have and continue to generate meaningful earnings,
yet that is not completely offset by your attempts to find the next hit games in categories where Zynga has no underlying expertise.
Yeah, they've basically lost $45 million last fourth quarter, bringing their total year losses to $226 million.
Yet, Mattrick says it's a year of progress. What is your definition of progress?
I think it's one of those companies where it just, it was too much, too fast, you know,
with FarmVille being really the first breakaway, OMG crazy Facebook game.
But I think we're kind of learning that, you know, any company can kind of get that success.
Now what is everybody playing on Facebook? It's that fucking trivia crack, and even I'm sucked into that.
It's on Android and iOS as well, and it ties into Facebook. Trivia crack, have you guys played that?
That's kind of like the new big thing right now.
No, but it's funny though, when I first heard you talking about it, I thought you were just referring to it as trivia crack.
No, it is actually called trivia crack, is the name of the game, which is hilarious,
because it's really just a straight up trivia game, it doesn't even make like drug jokes or whatever,
but all the questions are crowdsourced, which is part of what makes it very interesting.
But anyhow, all that talk aside, you know, Zynga hasn't really had that, you know,
they're not coming up with these games, other people are doing it,
and I think that's part of why they're probably hurting a little bit.
I still don't understand why Don Mattrick would have left Microsoft to do that,
although maybe, you know, things at Microsoft have kind of, I hate to say it,
but things at Microsoft have been looking up since he left,
and they've got a different guy in charge now who's got a very different approach,
and a lot of people seem to like it, so yeah, I don't know, I don't know what to say about that, it's tricky.
So, looking at our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com, Dungeon Buster says,
King actually had a good quarter. Yeah, interesting call,
King, of course, the makers of Candy Crush Saga, which, you know, I'm not really a fan,
but that's still going, you know, they had the sequel come out,
and I saw the arcade machine, and I think I saw my brain from rolling my eyes so hard,
but I get the feeling Candy Crush is really big with, like, kids and teens right now in that audience,
so, you know, that might be part of what's contributing to that.
Dungeon Buster in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com with a comment on Zynga,
saying, right now Zynga looks like a rudderless ship, they were trying to get into online gambling,
but that hasn't panned out for them.
Alright, well, we'll see if he can turn it around in the next year, but I don't know.
Maybe we'll have a merge, and we'll have King Nami.
Bite your tongue. Loki, quick, change the topic.
Alright, fortunately I'm not going to change it to a good topic, because that would just not be me,
but EA, they've had a few layoffs over at EA Montreal,
and basically saying that a small number of people have been laid off due to some staffing changes,
basically to line with their current development and service plans,
and a small number of employees were impacted, and they are working closely with each of them
to ensure the best transition possible.
And so the teams at EA Montreal, including BioWare, are working on exciting new projects, blah, blah, blah.
So, it's unfortunate, but at least it wasn't a ton of people, apparently.
But they didn't mention numbers, so.
But that happens from time to time, I don't know.
Yeah, still never fun to report on layoffs, but hopefully the gaming industry will rally around these guys,
you know, as we've had other layoffs stories happen.
I don't remember if it was this week or last week, but it's worth mentioning that, you know,
I think it was last week when Sony Online Entertainment is no longer Sony, right?
And they're now the Daybreak.
And they were like, oh, nothing's going to change, it's business as usual.
Well then, huge layoffs happened there.
And like, one of the big mouthpieces behind EverQuest was one of the people laid off.
And so it's, you know, always kind of sad to see.
But when those layoffs happened at least, Twitter was really like, you know,
even Blizzard was out there going, hey, if you were impacted, check out Blizzard Careers and get in touch, you know.
So, hopefully these folks are able to find placement somewhere else real quick,
because it's always a bummer to hear about this stuff.
Alright, moving on.
So, what's old is new again.
This is really cool.
Castlevania, you know, you brought up Symphony of the Night earlier in the show,
but without the original OG Castlevania game, not quite going back as far as Vampire Hunter,
but pretty much Castlevania, going all the way back to what started it all.
Castlevania has been ported to the Spectrum.
That's right, the ZX Spectrum now has a Castlevania port.
That is so awesome.
They actually, this guy actually ported, it kind of looks really rough around the edges,
especially the Simon Belmont sprite.
But, you know, the Spectrum could only handle so much, right?
No release date here as of yet, but it will have Castlevania style music, some improved detailed graphics.
They didn't really have the Spectrum over here anyway.
Exactly, well, yeah, but there's still a lot of love for it online, you know, people developing for it.
And it's going to be fully English translated and so forth, so that's really cool.
That's neat.
So that's something that's going to be coming out on the internet, and you can check that out.
More details at worldofspectrum.org.
So, cool.
It sounds like they kind of have some different stuff than what you might remember from Castlevania on the NES.
Well, because it was Akuma Joel Dracula.
Right.
Alright, let's get into tonight's mailbag.
Every week you guys send us emails.
Participate at orangelaunchradio.com.
Or maybe you don't.
Do we have any emails tonight at our soccer?
Yeah, we do, because only one person emails us every week now.
Only one person loves us?
There's only one.
There can be only one, alright.
Well, who is our biggest fan that sent us an email?
YYR.
We love YYR, he's the best.
Yes.
Hello, LR.
Was hoping to listen live tonight, but then stuff happened.
Well, fuck that stuff.
What, the Saturday Night Live special?
Eh.
You know they're going to sell that on DVD and have it on Netflix.
Mmm.
Judging all of you watching live.
It's their 40th anniversary was tonight.
But.
There is one thing though.
Do you think it's going to be funny again?
No, it'll be on Netflix.
That I really wanted to know your collective thoughts on.
Tonight I'm pretty sure you'll have covered Sega's recent financial woes and downsizing announcement.
That is just sad to me.
Having played the arcade exclusive Let's Go Island and the recent Project Diva titles,
I know that they're still capable of making fun games.
Let's Go Island is actually really fun.
And I do just want to clarify, we did address this last week.
It actually came up on last week's show, so.
But obviously not everything they've released lately has been quality.
Man, Let's Go Island though is super fun.
It's a messed up game.
But then you have the new Sonic game which was.
This week.
No.
I came across an editorial on the internet this week, being redundant.
Sonic the Hedgehog needs to die.
The piece argued that Sonic the Hedgehog isn't relevant anymore.
That there haven't been any truly great Sonic games in many years.
That Sega just plain lost their way with the series.
And that it should either end here or go on extended hiatus.
The writer notes of the fact that the new Mario games are still fun to play because Nintendo takes what works from previous games.
And uses those elements again, rather than Sega reinventing the wheel each time.
Ditching even the good things about previous games.
Hell, I never thought they would outsource their flagship character to an outside developer.
This is a mess.
As ridiculous as it sounds, I actually think there's some merit to this idea.
The average gamer just doesn't seem to trust the brand to deliver a fun experience anymore.
I recall the Sega of the 80s, 90s, and early 2000s.
The Sega that cranked out one fun game after another, both in arcades and at home.
And wonder if we'll ever see anything like that ever again.
The closest thing I see to that now is the line of Sega 3D classics being released on 3DS.
Fantasy Zone came out this week, and it is an absolutely great game. Of course it is because it's Fantasy Zone.
I need to get that.
It's a bit punishing at times.
But I digress. What do you guys think of the idea of Sega putting their mascot in time out for a while, feeling a bit blue, Aaron Yyr?
I think that they, I don't know, they did the same thing with Tomb Raider.
There was a lot of bad, well not bad, but not really good Tomb Raider games for a while.
And they kept rebooting that series over and over and over again.
And finally they got it right.
I just think the problem is they don't listen to their criticism.
What they're trying to do is they're trying to make it accessible for a new audience.
That's why they're trying to do this beat-em-up type style gameplay.
But no one fucking wants to play that.
They want to play Sonic the Hedgehog because Sonic runs fast.
They want to continue to play Sonic the Hedgehog on the Sega Genesis basically.
Even with Sonic Generations or whatever, I don't remember if that was the one with the stupid Werehog mode.
But the 3D running scenes, good.
The Werehog mode, crap.
So what do they do for Sonic Boom?
Hey, let's bring back the Werehog mode because people fucking love that.
And let's give Sonic some more friends and let's make him look all fucked up looking.
It's like, who came up with these ideas? It's stupid.
And that's the problem, they don't understand why their game's failing.
That's why your game's failing.
You know how you're going to reach a new demographic?
It's by making the game good to where people are like, oh, you should totally play this.
Kids are going to play a game if it's fun.
They're not going to play a game because it's edgier.
I don't know what you think makes a successful kids franchise. I don't know.
Well, it's like if you take Sonic Generations when it came out, you know what the fun parts of that game were?
Playing old-school Sonic.
The rest of it, you could give or take, it was more Sonic Colors.
But now I'm worried that with these layoffs, what Sega is going to become,
and I think this is part of what we talked about last week,
is that it's just basically going to be old-school Genesis games on mobile phones.
And like old-school, like, yay, people want to play.
But now it's all mobile and all this.
It's okay, we don't need Sonic.
Because there always is a chance to bring back Jazz the Jackrabbit.
We did have the toe-jamming Earl thing not that long ago. That's the thing.
You know what I think is honestly going to happen with YYR?
I think sometimes there's a phoenix that rises up from the ashes,
and we see this happen in gaming a lot,
and especially with the Kickstarter world that we live in now.
And you've seen this happen with Mega Man, and now we're even seeing it.
Maybe this banjo-kazooie thing is going to go to Kickstarter. I don't know.
But I would think that maybe some of these people with the layoffs might go forth and create something new.
You know, we were joking about Sanic the Hodgehog type of thing,
but I think there's going to be those developers that leave to make the game that they want to make.
The Mighty No. 9 to the Mega Man.
Exactly. And I think that's what's ultimately probably going to happen in this.
Does Sega need to walk away from Sonic completely?
Not necessarily. I think it's more they just need to...
How are they really using him is what it's about.
Well, they're trying to spin off the brand into a TV show and stuff like that,
and maybe they'll get more people following it.
Which is awful.
But let's be honest, the quality of game that they're trying to tie in with these TV shows aren't exactly great.
Skylanders is okay, I guess, but I don't see that as a...
I don't know. Personally, I don't see that as a big, strong brand.
If it didn't have the collectible figure part of it...
Oh yeah, I was going to say.
No, if it didn't have the collectible figure part of it, I don't think anyone would give a shit about Skylanders.
Let's get to some comments from our chatroom over at live.vognetwork.com.
Rama says, Sega is going to end up like Sunsoft, closing shop in the US and pushing out mobile titles.
Tigerclaw says, I think the problem people have with Sonic is that they expect that sense of speed like in the original games.
Sonic today is more platform-y, and they want the games to play like the originals.
Dungeonbuster points out, Sega's other devs are actually doing pretty good, though.
Alien Isolation passed 1.7 million sold, if I recall correctly.
Seattle asks, what the fuck did they do to Knuckles?
S2 Hunter Matt says, I remember running out and getting Conker's bad fur day as a kid because it was edgy and raunchy.
Ragenator says, for the record, I support Sega and have been buying their games.
Rama going on as a follow-up to Tigerclaw's comment saying,
The old schoolers need to understand that there is a change, and the old school gamers aren't the majority anymore.
The games are going to get geared towards a newer, broader generation, even though it won't work all the time.
Porque no los dos?
If that game was successful, and I just didn't like it, then that's fine.
Then everything has changed.
There's a lot of successful games I don't like, a lot of sports games.
If it was successful and I just didn't like it, then that's fine, then whatever.
But it just didn't sell well either, so it's not that everything's changed,
it's just that they decided, I don't know, that they wanted to go this direction with it.
It's just not working for them, and they've tried it several times and it just hasn't worked for them.
So maybe you should go back and look at what made your game good in the first place, and stick there.
And how about, here's my free advice to you, stop giving him more fucking friends!
Nobody likes Sonic's goddamn friends.
They came for Sonic the Hedgehog, not friends with Sonic the Hedgehog.
No, no, no, they need to do the Amy Rose spin-off.
Amy goes around beating shit up with her hammer.
If Amy is going to murder all the other Sonic friends, then I'm fine with that.
We need to get fucking George R.R. Martin in on this shit to fucking get it.
Just dial down to pure Sonic the Hedgehog, and I think we've got something there.
You know what, I have to say, I love Knuckles.
I love Knuckles.
Yeah, but not new Knuckles.
Not that over-roided shit thing.
Sorry, the George R.R. Martin comment has me just cracking the hell up, that's great.
Alright, so I guess that's the answer to Y.Y.R.'s question.
We need George R.R. Martin to fix it.
You know, in about 50 years, whenever he actually writes a book.
Oh god, alright.
There it is, that's our mailbag tonight.
Let's get to the FUs of the week.
Every week we like to give our little rants on our show.
Why? Because tradition.
We get upset sometimes, and have to vent a few things.
Oh, this is bad.
Here is justice.
Here is punishment.
Here.
This is fucked up.
Um, FU to the little bit of a headache I have right now, and FU to my hip.
Um, I'm too young for this shit.
But if you get a cane, look on the bright side.
Look on the bright side. We can go to Disneyland and cut all the lines.
I'm gonna shake it at people, tell us because you get the fuck off my lawn, and yell at clouds.
Well, we're all hoping it's nothing too serious.
That if you do have a cane, it's temporary.
Wouldn't it be awesome if I have to come in like in a half body cast or something?
No.
If I have to have surgery, and then I can just say, I'll be sitting here with a tub of pinkberry, and my cane.
Then you'll be the one Skyping into the show for six months like he had to do last year, so.
To go ahead and let people know, I was in a car accident, two car accidents a few years ago.
And screwed up my hip, and I just, I made the stupid mistake of not really getting it taken care of properly.
And my doctors were just like, oh, it'll be fine. Do this physical therapy.
So I do put part of the responsibility on them, although I should have been more proactive, I think.
And I've been going to a chiropractor regularly, but my hip has actually been getting progressively worse.
And now it's pretty much where it hurts all the time in a wealth of lengths, so, yeah.
Well, we have a mutual friend who's also, you know, not an old man by any means, who had to have like a similar surgery.
And he was out for a little while, but he's pretty much out and about now, like nothing else, so.
So, um, they said low-end it could be bursitis, high-end it could be surgery, but whatever happens, I'll just deal with it.
Uh, Loki.
I'm just gonna mention it, just because I'm disappointed.
I was a pretty big fan of the show, and I just, I can't understand what it is with, you know, not even necessarily Law & Order,
because a lot of these cop drama shows just do it.
And I'm not even talking necessarily about the gaming things, why is it that fucking TV shows can't do technology correctly?
And I understand that, yes, your audience might not be in tune with like lingo and stuff like that,
but it was so fucking retarded that it was insulting.
Like, just to anybody that has any intellect at all.
I just don't understand how this is a thing.
So, that's it.
And to end to this stupid cop that won't fucking go away, it's been like four weeks now, and I need this fucking cop to go away.
It's like, annoying.
Uh, my F.U. of the week goes to my voice.
Even though I don't regret my short-lived retirement, and I'm sure I'm going to be the butt of the joke of all my friends,
that I couldn't stop doing it, even though I retired, I don't regret that at all,
but I do regret maybe that I had to yell a little bit too much.
And F.U. to the computer that plays the movie for freezing up, and it had to be rebooted, like as the movie was about to start,
so I had to go on stage and basically fill time for ten minutes.
So, I want to say thank you to these podcasts where I've been basically, with all due respect,
BSing for three hours a night here, and an hour on Hoard House, and whatever side projects I do.
You know, that has given me the skill to improv a little bit,
because last night, I had to fill like ten, fifteen minutes of time in an audience of five hundred people.
And here, I don't have to look at you, but there, they were looking right at me, and you got hecklers and everything,
but thank God for this podcast. So, F.U. to that computer for freezing up and putting me on the spot last night.
But I had a lot of fun, and I wouldn't, I don't get to do that type of stuff enough.
It's a real bummer, I like never get to do that stuff in the gaming world and so forth,
but I really love doing it over in Colt Cinema, doing the hosting and all that stuff.
So, yeah, but F.U. to my voice for maybe pushing it a little too much last night, having fun.
Alright, just a couple more stories for you guys, and then we're going to get to our phone calls.
1-877-GAME-OLR, or our username on Skype, Orange Lounge Radio. Loki.
Yes, so, this is kind of cool. Even though you may not necessarily own a Vita or PlayStation TV,
or even certain types of Xperia mobile phones from Sony, you will still be able to do remote plays if you have an Android device.
And this is because they have taken the Android app that runs on these Xperia phones
and have hacked it in a way to allow it to run on several Android devices.
So now you can play PlayStation 4 games and remote play them on there.
You can actually sync it up with there.
They also have, I guess, different ways you can do this.
I guess you can connect a DualShock 3 or DualShock 4 to the phones as well, which you're going to need an app for that.
And, of course, you're going to need to root your phone to allow that to work.
But the thing that's pretty sweet that they're going to have you do that,
and that combined with just the stuff that they announced for Windows 10 and things,
I'm looking forward to be able to play more stuff remotely.
Although, I don't think my phone's going to run this because my phone has enough trouble just loading a picture,
let alone running my PlayStation 4 streaming over Wi-Fi.
I just don't think that's going to be a thing.
But hopefully, even though this is kind of a hack right now,
hopefully they do have some sort of wide support for it coming soon, maybe officially.
Although, I guess they want to sell some Vita's.
Yeah, if you take away one of the biggest reasons why people are buying Vita's, then, you know, for this remote play.
I don't know. It's pretty cool, though. I'd be curious to see how well it works.
Yeah. Dark Soccer, you have something?
Well, yeah. This is actually a little something I might have mentioned earlier.
But there is going to be a Final Fantasy VII symphony concert in Tokyo this summer.
Oh, cool.
It's going to be on June 21st. It will be the first of Game Symphony Japan concert series.
And it will be the one to feature music by Uematsu.
And it's going to be all Final Fantasy VII, including one winged angel.
With a full choir and everything? I mean, that's the way to do it, right?
Yeah. And looking at where this is going to be held, it looks like it's going to be at the Suntory Hall in Akaska.
So, go. I want people to be there and cover it for us.
All right. Well, let's go to one more story tonight.
And this is about Nintendo and mobile phones. That's right.
That day might have finally come here.
Okay, no, no. We're not jumping to conclusions that big.
But there is some very interesting movement happening here.
And that is some comments from Satoru Iwata this week talking about Miis on mobile devices.
Quote, it would be fun for players to use their Mii characters as icons on social media.
We are currently developing an application that will allow users to do that.
So it sounds like, potentially, maybe Nintendo is working on something that would just allow you to import your Mii onto your mobile phone so you could save a picture and use it as your Facebook picture, your Twitter picture.
Funny enough, I actually use mine on Twitch. If you go to my Twitch channel, and I swear this isn't just a cheap plug,
but if you go to my Twitch channel at twitch.tv slash robroberts, I actually use my Mii as my little profile picture because I thought, boom, it's appropriate.
How? No, it's not impossible. You don't need a mobile phone because Miiverse is on the internet.
So I went to one of my Miiverse posts and what does it have? It has your little Mii face next to it.
So I basically jacked the picture from Miiverse and used that as my profile picture.
Did they ever release Miiverse as an app? I didn't think they did.
I know it's like a mobile-friendly website.
And they're making an app, so that's what the app will do.
The tech saying, go to Miiverse and download it.
Loki, you might be having mic problems over there. I don't think they all heard the call.
Sorry, the switch keeps sliding.
Oh, is that mic breaking? Do we need to get you to do it?
No, it's fine.
Alright. Stop fucking with it and it won't break.
Sorry, I...
I know habit.
I'd rather not cough into the mic.
Oh, fair enough.
Alright. Live radio, guys. Sorry, we are...
And I don't always see the audio live because I'm always looking at chat or I'm looking at the story I'm trying to read,
so my eyes are not always on the audio, so sometimes I miss it.
Anyhow, that was it for Stories, though. That Mi Mobile app was the last thing I had.
So we're going to go ahead and open up the Skype line over at 1877-GAME-OLR.
Our username on Skype is orangeloungeradio, if you want to give us a call.
I will mention this for Last Minute Stories tonight. Tigerclaw sent me this link here.
I do want to mention this.
And this is something I remember reading about earlier in this week, too,
but that the TV service on the Wii U is going to be going away in Europe.
TV is not going to be happening in Europe anymore.
It sounds like it was just too hard.
It's a little more complicated in Europe when you have all these countries and programming schedules and so forth.
It just wasn't really worth it to try and put that all together.
So TV in Europe going away, but probably hardly anyone was using it anyway. I don't know.
But anyway, the phones are lighting up, so let's get to it.
Hi, you're on Orange Launch Radio. Who's this?
Hello, you're on Orange Launch Radio, and your mic might be muted. Who's this?
Yeah, my mic was muted. Hey, what's up? This guy's Judo.
It's like me. I'm calling in.
See, it's not just you, Loki. All right. What's up, Kaijuto?
Not much. I wanted to address what you were talking about earlier with the people being into their retro games
and wanting to be retro and missing the old Sega.
I think I have an answer for that. I've actually been analyzing that and just trying to figure out,
what is it about people that love these retro games?
Because me, I'm more into innovation. I want the games to move forward.
I like when they do new things, so I'm not really in that category, but I wonder about people that are.
I kind of compare it to, have you ever heard of people who say that they've gone through drug addiction?
The key thing that they say about drug addiction is that the reason why they continue to take drugs
is because they're chasing that first high. That first high that they got from that drug is what they've been after.
Every other high that they got doesn't compare to that first one.
The whole entire life of their addiction, they're chasing that one high.
I think that's what's going on with a lot of gamers who love retro stuff.
They got such a kick out of that game when they were a kid, or whatever the experience was,
that they're just continuing to chase that same experience over and over again and not trying to find something new to experience.
That is a very, with all due respect, a very strange comparison, but it kind of works.
I don't know how that makes me feel that your comparison kind of works.
Games are an addiction. I think some people do actually get addicted to games.
Oh, I think a lot of people actually.
It can be considered a drug.
I think a lot of people get addicted to games, especially in the MMO world where things are very social that we live in.
But anyway, that's a little-
No, I don't even think, I wouldn't even go that far.
That's a little different than what you're talking about.
I think the category that I'm talking about, those are the people that actually don't want to socialize in a game.
They're the ones who want their single player, they want to watch Sonic run through a loop multiple times over and over again.
I don't see them as actually being social. I think the MMO crowd is a little different than your average single player gamer.
Obviously your comments are getting a lot of lively responses in chat.
Fifth Dream says, nah, I just have fun playing them. I'm not into trying to feel a thing.
Dungeon Buster says, fun games are fun games regardless of their time frame.
That might actually have been to another comment that they're talking about, some game playthroughs.
But anyway, what I wanted to say with that is that we're not saying that if you enjoy retro video games you're a drug addict.
That's not what Kaiju was trying to say.
But I definitely see that angle of, and you see this a lot.
Ever since emulators broke on the scene, this is a big thing, where you will download a ROM.
Remember, and the reason why I say it this way is because emulators were before Virtual Console.
I realize some of you might be frowning. I'm talking about a very gray area of legal things.
But I just think this is something a lot of people have done.
Where you are downloading NES ROM to play on this NES emulator you get on your PC.
And you play it for literally 45 seconds.
Where you're like, oh yeah, I remember this. Wow, it's not really what I remember.
Alright, next game. It's like how things in our memory are so much different than maybe what they are now.
In our interview earlier tonight, I think Don made this point when he was talking about games that he was playing when he was 9.
And he wanted to make the game that he thought he was remembering.
Right, yeah. I remember going to Pirate Day and finding a whole bunch of, I think they had almost every Super Nintendo game ever made.
And I was like, alright, I gotta download this. I wanna be playing all these games. These are the games I always wanted as a kid.
I haven't even gotten through 10% of those games yet.
Just sit on my computer, you know. It's just that whole feeling that you get from me.
I don't care who was it, Rageinator, who was it, Trip Dream, whoever.
It is a feeling. That feeling, that fun that you call it, that's a feeling.
You know, you're chasing that feeling. You want that feeling again.
SSJ100Matt puts this in a really good way as saying, I can see people chasing nostalgia to try to rekindle those early moments from their first time.
Right.
I think that's a really good way of putting it. Like, remember, and I don't know how old you are, Kaijutor, or what your frame of reference would be.
But I know for me, when I was like, I think I was 9 years old when Super Mario Bros. 3 first came out on the NES.
And I remember that feeling the first time you go to World 4, specifically World 4. Anybody remember what World 4 in Super Mario Bros. 3 is?
I don't remember.
It is?
Boot.
Nope. Close.
Giant.
Giant. It's the giant level. It's the world of giants.
Oh, yeah, yeah. That was great.
And it's like the first time you see the giant goobas, the giant turtle.
And I remember, like, 9 years old, like, oh my god.
Yeah, that was great.
This is so cool.
Except, like, their dead animation was still the regular size.
You're right. But now you go, yeah, you go back and you look at it now and you're like, this was actually kind of, like, the way they did it, they really cut a lot of corners how they did this.
You know? But it's just funny, like, you know, what memory kind of does to things like that.
Yeah, I remember playing that game with my friend, Super Mario Bros. 3. And for, like, a good, I would say 20 minutes, I just kept making Mario run back and forth because I couldn't believe that you can run back to where you started.
Because, you know, remembering the other Mario games and just a bunch of platformers, it's like, once you move past that edge, you can never go back, you know?
And that's one of the main reasons why I really got into sandbox games later on. Like, you know, 3D sandboxing was just for the simple fact that I can go wherever I want in a game.
Like, one of the things that always bugged me as a kid playing a lot of platformers and games like that was you couldn't go back.
You know, you couldn't explore that place over the mountain that you're running by. You know, like, that type of stuff is what led me to want to get more into innovative gaming and not so much being trapped in the whole retro thing.
You know, just, you know, being stuck in that one spot.
Sure, and that's a selling point for a lot of games now. Like, I remember when Oblivion, Elder Scrolls of Oblivion was first, they were talking about, you see that mountain in the distance, you can go climb it.
You know, that was a huge part of that game. Dungeonbuster in our chat, one more comment here and then I'll wrap up.
Dungeonbuster saying, Space Invaders, Pac-Man, Super Pac-Man, still great regardless of having come out decades ago.
You can't really fault players for looking to games today, modern or retro, that try to capture the essence of being as fun in their own way.
Well, I'm going to disagree with that. I'm just going to end out by just saying that same thing with developers.
Like, they're still chasing that retro format and because of that, they start to fail because obviously it's not going to be, you're not going to get that same feeling again.
You can't step in the water, the same water twice. So, it's like when they try to do, you know, HD remakes and, you know, we're going to add more friends with Sonic.
When they try to do that type of stuff, they're killing the nostalgia. So, they've already screwed themselves over. The only thing they can possibly do is make it new, make it fresh.
And not so much, you know, try to recapture that because it's locked away in the old game, the way the old game worked. You know, bugs and everything.
It's tricky. I kind of think sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. Like, you know, the Sonic, the Hedgehog Part 4 or whatever, you know, I mean, that was a pretty retro inspired thing.
But it wasn't, it wasn't really, it was just, it wasn't that great. Like, it was just kind of missing something.
Missing the soul. That, you know, that feeling that you got when you were a kid or however you were when you first played it. Not even a kid. I mean, I'm pretty sure there could be a 60-year-old who's playing Mario right now for the first time and getting his kicks out of it.
So, but there's not so much an age thing. It's just that first initial experience that you had with the game.
But then you look at something like, you look at something like New Super Mario Brothers on Wii U, and it's like, that's basically Mario Brothers 3 in today's.
I mean, it's basically what it is, but it's, and it's awesome. So, I think, you know, again, Nintendo has a very strange way of being able to succeed here where a lot of other companies don't succeed.
Anyway, Kaijuto, we could probably do a whole show on this. I appreciate your call. Good thinking.
No problem. Have a good night.
Take care, buddy. Bye.
What's up?
Yeah, that was so many years ago. Oh my God. So anyway, but yeah, I had a good time there, but thank God it wasn't Snowmageddon the year I went, because I wouldn't know what the hell to do.
Listen, I'm just laughing at people who are trying to beat the snow, and I'm guilty of it doing it this year.
My thing is, yes, you could beat the snow getting down there, but what are you going to do when the snow traps you?
Catsnokon9 at Catsnokon2003. A bunch of us were stuck in the hotel in Crystal City until Tuesday.
Big snow, big snow. What you gonna do? What you gonna do when it snows in you?
Anyway, I just hope that doesn't happen to me at PAX East. Alright, well, what's on your mind tonight? I don't know if you're calling to talk about the con or something else or what.
Oh, no, no, no, no. I'd go talk about the whole old-school retro thing, the whole issue with Sonic, and I see this in the gaming community, and I'm starting to see it in the anime community as well.
I mean, not even that, I'm just seeing it in various communities and genres. It's like, I love my old-school gaming, and I do. Don't get me wrong.
I don't mind playing an updated version or something new, and that always works out for me. I've fallen in the minority of people who hated Super Mario 64.
You mean to tell me I gotta go back to the level seven times to complete this? No, I'm not doing it anymore.
Hate is a strong word, Rama, but I'm with you to a point. I kind of think we look back on that game way too fondly.
That's my personal opinion, though, and I think a lot of the 2D versus 3D mindset comes into play. I don't want to start a whole debate, but I don't think you're as alone as you think you are, Rama.
Yeah, but you know, with the other 3D games, like the Mario 3D games, I like those. Those were fun, because it kept going.
Now, I understand, you know, the whole thing with Sonic Boom, and I have a lot of friends in the Sonic community that were losing their shit over it because it was so different.
And all I said was, you do realize, us old school gamers now, we're the minority. They're not listening to us.
They're going to make the games, design it for the newer generation coming in. So, if we see Sonic Boom and we don't like it, maybe your nephew or niece is going to see it, is going to want it, and play it.
Granted, the sales of Sonic Boom wasn't as good.
Yeah, I was going to say that didn't happen, though.
True, but there are other, I would say, as you look at Nintendo, they did something different. The latest Mario games aren't really old school. They just spin on it, and it works.
Pretty much whether it's a success or failure, these businesses are going to go after the newer generation because there's more of them than there is of us.
Well, like I said in response to that, though, earlier when it had come up in chat, I was kind of like, well, why can't we have both? Because I think there's still certainly a big gaming audience.
I mean, many, many years ago when gaming was first born, you probably didn't have a lot of 30 and 40-year-old gamers. You certainly had some.
I mean, a lot of that age group was making the games at the time, but it wasn't as mainstream for that age group. But anybody our age, Ranma, anybody our age knows who Mario and Link and Sonic are.
Anybody our age, seriously, unless they're Amish or something, knows these characters. They're part of our culture now.
I know, and that's why, you know, that's how I look at how Nintendo rehashes the old games, brings back an HD, and I know we're all like, Nintendo, stop with the HD remixes.
But meanwhile, they put them out, and they sell like candy, and it's gold, because some of these are great titles, and I understand that.
Okay, young'uns, come here, check out one of these classic games done up for your new console. Play it and enjoy it, you know?
And I get with that, which is why I would love to see, for the 3DS, maybe Sega redoing the Sonic titles with the 3D effects of the background. That would be fun.
Maybe Nintendo will get all the Mario titles together, 3D fire up the backgrounds and play it for fun. That would be cool. I would love that, but...
I want to say, and I could be wrong, but I feel like this is something that happened, and maybe Bobby or somebody that was at that same E3 would remember this.
But I want to say, when they first showed the 3DS, you had to wait in that big line and go see the 3DS for the very first time, they were showing old school NES titles, redone in 3D.
And there were things like Xevious and some titles that never got that 3D treatment, just like we never did get the 3D movies. And I think Sonic was one of those games they showed.
Wait, I can tell you this now, because I went on to the Nintendo club rewards, they have Xevious and Twinbee, urban champion, they've 3D-fied those, and you can get them.
Alright, sorry, I named a game that they did do, but I know there were games we saw on the show floor, retro games with the 3D spin that they never put out for public consumption for whatever reason.
Maybe somebody at that E3 can remember, but I thought Sonic was one of them. I thought Sonic was one of them.
Probably, but that would be pretty cool.
All it was really, I mean, it's not as fancy as you would think, all it was was that they could put one sprite layer on this 3D layer, and they could put another sprite layer on this 3D layer.
So it was kind of what you say, the background was in the background, the foreground was in the foreground, and that was the 3D.
Anyway, just throwing it out there, for whatever reason, I don't think it ever came out.
Yeah, but neither did, we also got to see Tangled, like the trailer was playing on a 3DS, and we never, I mean, short of Dinosaur Office, we never saw 3D movies.
So they never did the Sonic one?
I don't think so.
Because I'm looking at a review for it.
Unless it's part of that Sega Classics thing.
It may have been the Sega Classics thing.
Aha! So maybe it does exist.
And I'm sure there's somebody who might have downloaded it.
Keep in mind, I don't have the entire contents of the 3DS store memorized in any game I buy, I pretty much buy all my own money.
Yeah, because I guess they said the M2 did that.
So okay, so maybe they do have one, there it is.
Well there you go!
Rama, you need to open up your 3DS and go on the shop, and so do I.
Yeah, some people in chat are saying, Orange Wright says 3D Sonic happened.
Alright, I'm gonna have to check it out, because if it's really 3D, I may just have to pick it up, because I think that would be pretty fun.
I think something like that would kind of bridge the gap between the old school and the new school.
It's just that twist that would work so well.
How hard would it be though for them to just configure the old games?
Like here's each sprite layer is on a different, you know, each layer of sprites is on a different level or something.
And you may have to tweak that per game, but I wouldn't see it be that hard to port that stuff over if they have an emulator for that.
I don't know, because I don't program games, but I can't imagine it's insanely difficult, but maybe you run into other weird issues with the new display and things like that.
Maybe that's where things get tricky, I don't know.
I don't know.
Alright, anyway Rama, I'm gonna let you go to try to squeeze in one more call, but thanks so much.
Hope you had fun at the con.
We will, and we'll be doing a full review with me, Ari, Mako-chan, and Ablon Cosplay, so get your booze ready, get the drinks ready, we're gonna do it up.
Alright, it's going down Tuesday here live at VOG Network on Anime Jam Session.
And before I get it, here's my last thing.
Ookchan, I got something to show you, look at the webcam.
It's a copy of Rama on...
I have that game.
That looks like a Super Famicom cart, not a...
It is.
This one is Rama 1 half the first fighting game that came over as Street Combat.
I rented that game once, Rama, with the frickin' converter.
Yeah, and this is the third fighting game, which was, they called Super Battle.
It was supposed to come over as Rama 1 half 2, anything goes martial arts, but due to poor sales, it never happened.
That one's the fun one.
The second one was the one we actually got over here as Rama 1 half Hard Battle.
Yep.
And that was the one that had, uh, the gambling king had, uh, pantyhose in it.
Yeah, and if you beat the game with pantyhose, the game would glitch.
Yep.
It would glitch.
Alright.
Well, Rama, thanks for the call.
No problem.
Alright, take care, buddy.
You too.
Alright.
1-877-GAME-OLR or a username on Skype, OrangeLoungeRadio if you want to give us a call.
Loki, that story you were gonna read that I cut you off on.
Sorry, I was gonna mention that apparently with a recent interview with, um, Giorgio, um, Mordor,
um, apparently he's working on a new video game soundtrack for a new Tron game, and he's also working with Skrillex on that.
So there's a new Tron game in the works.
He says, uh, you know, according with, uh, Clashmusic.com,
I'm gonna meet with Skrillex next week.
When I'm back, I'm doing music for a game for Disney's Tron.
We have about five themes, electronic stuff, and let's see if he's interested in remixing or reworking one of the songs.
I have a lot of conflicting feels about this.
Um, on one hand, I'm like, yay, Tron.
On the other hand, hmm.
Alright, well, we'll see.
We'll see.
I'm just all about a new Tron game. Come on.
I guess. I guess.
That's true, though. Tigerclaw and chat, Giorgio and Mordor is a legend.
That is, uh, is true.
So, we'll see. I gotta give it a shot, right? It's Tron.
Alright, let's see if we can get in one more call here.
Uh, hi, you're on Orange Land's Radio. Who's this?
Hi, yeah, this is Ragingator.
Hey, Ragingator. What's up, buddy?
Uh, not a whole lot.
Uh, just trying to stay warm.
Yeah, you look cold.
Hope everything's alright.
Oh, it's beyond cold. It has to warm up to be cold.
It's like, last time we talked, there was, like, negative something degrees Fahrenheit here.
Oh my god.
It does not even take into consideration wind chill effects.
You own Xbox 360s. If so, turn them on.
What's on your mind tonight, buddy?
Uh, well, since a lot of the talk on tonight's show has either been retro games and Sega and so on and so forth, I thought I'd carry on the trend and talk about Sega and their issues in the retro games.
Uh, these, uh, I know I kind of touched on the subject, uh, a few times before on the show and maybe even Bobby, not Bobby's show, but, uh, so I know it's going to sound like a broken record, but do you think that, uh, you know, Sega could have their position, you know, their financial position if they re-release more of their retro games above and beyond what they already released?
I know that a few years ago they already re-released, uh, Sega, uh, Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection on 360, PS3, and then, of course, there's the stuff on, uh, on Steam, plus, uh, there's the Dreamcast Collection, and I think, you know, and plus, Res was re-released.
You know...
And then, I think, you know, Nicely Two Dreams was re-released.
That's a...
That's a good question.
Um, you know, a lot of, uh, these games kind of get re-released, and I remember that Sonic, uh, Ultimate Collection was a pretty damn good collection, and I think part of what makes these games worthy of your dollar is that, and this is, you know, if you think about it, I've been nagging on this with Virtual Console for a very long time, is that straight up ports of the game only go so far.
And I think, you know, that's cool if on the Wii you buy your straight up port of the game.
On the Wii U, asking you to do it again is, is, is a challenge, but, okay, it does look really good on the gamepad and so forth, and you do have the discount, so whatever, but, you know, my question is, when are things gonna really push forward, and when will we see, like, achievements, or some type of online component?
Or if you buy it on the Wii U, you have it on the 3DS, or something.
Yeah, or co-op, or something like that.
And so I sort of say that's where game companies can kind of get away with putting out retro classics again is, what is that new thing?
How does this retro classic tie into the new thing in gaming right now, be it social integration, or, or whatever it is?
And I think if a game can do that, it tends to usually do a little better than, oh, here it is, just, just a straight up port of the game from a few years ago, again and again and again.
Especially when that goes over to mobile, it's like, because usually the controls don't translate as well, but that's, you know, again, a lot of that is opinion, but that's my opinion.
Yeah, one thing I was gonna mention is that there are certain games, like the ones I mentioned before, before you would buy, those have been released again and again and again, and that being said, people can easily get the hands on them, no problem.
Whereas other games, you know, like the vast majority of the games for, let's say, Sega Saturn, be it, you know, Panzer Dragoon, or Mr. Bones, or any other game that you can possibly name, plus the vast majority of game cast games, you know, haven't been re-released, to the best of my knowledge.
And I'm one of the few people that really hasn't bought a whole lot of Sega systems, and in fact the only ones I ever bought were the Genesis, and I didn't even get that until 2002.
So, if I had the opportunity to buy, like, Panzer Dragoon, for example, you know, on Steam, if I had the opportunity right here, right now, I'd buy in a heartbeat. I can't speak for anyone else, you know, listening, or you guys, but...
So, I think you're talking about why do these companies, like, kind of limit their offerings in a way. It's like, why not, if you, you know, get that one Genesis game emulated, get them all emulated, make some money.
I don't, you know, and again, because I don't program, and I don't budget or whatever, I just play, and have a big fat opinion, like a lot of us do, I don't know to what extent they have to go to to get a game emulated.
But maybe they have to say, like, are there a lot of people like Raginator out there that would buy Panzer Dragoon to make an emulation worth it, and sometimes they may think, you know what, the demand really isn't there.
But, that's where fans have to speak up, and your voices are heard on their forums, and, you know, professional emails to some of their channels and so forth, and Twitter and so forth, you can kind of be heard, and hopefully it doesn't fall on deaf ears.
Yeah, one last note before I do let you go is, yes, I know, you know, there are, how should I say, less than legitimate ways of getting those games, and I know technically that's possible, but that is at best a gray area, and that's one route that I really don't want to go.
I would rather give, you know, Sega or Nintendo or whoever, you know, my money for a legitimate copy, that way I can support those companies, give them my funds, they would, you know, help out the next project, and there's no telling if the next project is going to be a good game or a bad game.
But, the point is, I want to support the developers and publishers.
And I think that's good, and I think that's what a lot of people need to remember, is that, you know, games aren't made for free, you wouldn't work for free, so, you know, why do we want our game devs to do that?
So, you know, you have to think about that every time you might use shady methods to obtain a game. So, anyway, RageNator, appreciate the call, have a good one, stay warm.
I will do, take care.
Alright, buh-bye. Alright, that's going to do it for the Skype line tonight, I'm going to go ahead and close it up, because we're about to wrap up shop here at Studio OLR, but I do want to check in for any other last minute stories we might have.
I'm just a silly mob that they have for Doom, where you can do Instagram-style selfies.
Oh, lord. Selfies in Doom, though? Wait a minute.
Yeah, they have a selfie stick.
Oh my god. That is, that is actually the dumbest news I think I've ever heard on this show.
I don't think I can roll my eyes any harder without causing myself physical pain.
I did see this pretty cool Kickstarter that's also out there, if you look at it, it's called Strafe. It's a procedurally generated 1996-style FPS game that's extremely gory.
Oh, god.
Extremely gory as in, you know...
In 90s, like 96 pixel...
Pixel blood!
Pixel blood, yeah.
But it looks pretty funny, and the Kickstarter video that they have for it is just fucking hilarious.
Awesome.
And also extremely gory, but in like that kind of 90s-style commercial sense, but they take it way too far.
That's awesome.
Face melting.
Alright, well that is going to do it for another episode of Orange Lounge Radio.
I'm about to go around and get everybody's final thoughts for the night, but I do want to thank Don and Austin from the StarMazer team for joining us on the show tonight.
Best of luck in that final push for those, excuse me, last few dollars you need to make the game happen.
Our fingers are crossed.
Hey, if nothing else, y'all, I want that soundtrack.
I'm just saying, like, you know, I want that soundtrack, so let's cross our fingers and our toes for those guys.
I want to thank those guys for being on.
Thank you guys for being here and supporting Orange Lounge Radio, whether you were here live and chose to listen to us instead of the Saturday Night Live special, really appreciate that.
Hey, if you're listening on the podcast feed, we appreciate that too.
Don't we have the Oscars we're going up against next week too?
Yeah, now the Oscars are next week. We lost our guests next week because of the Oscars. We're trying to reschedule them for a future date.
Oh yeah, but we might have a replacement guest, which would be great, so that'd be great.
Well, I was totally disappointed that Neil Patrick Harris decided to bail on us.
So, I know Sunday night is when a lot of the big shit happens, so we really appreciate you guys that decide to be here live and participate with it.
We really, really appreciate you guys, but we also appreciate, we appreciate you podcast folks just as much.
Your support keeps this show going.
Just if you are listening, the live listeners, we see most of them in our chat room and we get to interact with them.
So, if you're listening on the podcast, please drop us a line, say hello, send an email, tweet at us, let us know you're out there.
We love hearing from people. Don't be shy.
We're really nice, unless you're mean to us, then we'll be mean, but we're really nice otherwise.
So, yeah, and we don't ask for your money or we don't have a big name website backing us up here at Orange Lawns Radio.
So, all we ask if you enjoyed what you heard here at Orange Lawns Radio, please tell a friend or two or five about the show.
Help spread the word where every gamer has a voice because we don't know the voices are out there if we don't find them.
Like we had Austin tonight, big Bamani fan, didn't know he was out there until we finally got in touch.
So, now we know and hopefully there's plenty more people out there who just don't know of OLR yet who would fit in great here.
So, help us spread the word.
A nice five-star review on iTunes or Stitcher goes a long, long, long way and we appreciate those of you guys that take the time out to do things like that.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Alright, it's time to go around and get everybody's final thought for the night so we can wrap it up here.
Dark Sakura, I see you packing a laptop away. We'll start with you.
I was in the middle of pulling my hair back so come to me later.
Alright, then Loki, what is your final thought for tonight?
I'm going to try to figure out what level two is going to be.
You can do it.
I have a ton of ideas. I have a list of ideas.
How many levels are you doing, out of curiosity?
69.
Here's the number of ideas I have right now is on one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
He's counting.
20. I have 20 so far.
20 is a good number, maybe.
So far.
Or maybe do like seven just to get your game out there and then...
I have to also look at and see which of these are actually doable because there's some ideas I'm like, well, I may not be able to do that, but we'll try.
Make it work. I really want to see the game, but of course I have to take my own advice because I want to get my vog jam done, belated as it is.
My final thought for the night is I would love to have my voice back tomorrow. That would be very lovely.
And, um, I just, I'm, I'm feeling very great and thankful for a lot of things.
Um, and thank you all who contribute to being here and supporting this show for contributing to my lovely mood this evening.
So, uh, I appreciate it.
Not every day is a lovely mood, but today I'm certainly feeling it. So thank you all.
Uh, Darsakha, your final thought tonight?
Everyone pull out your iPhones right now and buy FLOM.
F L O M M. Do the thing. Do it for me.
Do you get some FLON? Okay.
FLON, I let it on. Do you get kickback?
No, I don't, but it's fun. And I honestly, we need to support more people.
This is, this would really mean a lot to me. It would mean a lot to Steve.
You've talked fondly of him for a while now, so I know you really want to see him succeed.
I do. So do it for me. It's, it's $3. I will lend you $3.
That's a lot of people to lend $3 to.
I was talking to you, Rob.
Oh, me? Okay. No, I actually, thankful, uh, some friends gave me an iTunes gift card for the holidays.
So I have, I have my radio.
Spend it on FLOM.
All right. Should I spend it on FLOM 10 times?
Well, you just do it once.
All right.
Cheese, Rob.
All right. That's going to do it, uh, here at Orange Lounge Radio for another week.
We'll be back in seven days to do it all again.
Thanks so much for listening. Have a wonderful week, everybody. Good night.
You've been listening to Orange Lounge Radio.
Orange Lounge Radio is a production of OLR Studios.
To join us for a live show, tune into vognetwork.com Sunday nights at 6 p.m. Pacific, 9 p.m. Eastern.
The views and opinions expressed in this program do not necessarily reflect those of the staff of Orange Lounge Radio or VOG Network.
But you know they were all still true.
See you next week.
Bye-bye.